
 Can you hear me?
 My name is Joe Biden.
 I was born in Mercy Hospital in Scranton. By the way, you have no idea how that old expression, when my dad lived up here and we had to move because things kind of fell apart in terms of jobs, but my great grandfather, Edward Francis Blewitt, was the first Irish-Catholics elected to the state senate in the state of Pennsylvania from Scranton in 1907. It’s a long, long history, but it’s good to be home. One of the things, I know everybody says, “Why do you keep calling it home?” Well, I left here when I was going into the fourth grade, but I came home almost all summer, every summer.
 When I got married to my deceased wife, my wedding party was seven people, five of them are friends from Scranton. I grew up here. So Scranton’s where I learned, like you did, all my basic values. I learned at my grandpa’s table at 2446 North Washington Avenue, that money did not determine your wealth. I learned that if you want anything to do it, then do it when you set your mind to it. I learned that basic responsibility everybody had was just to look out, just to look for the other guy, look out at what’s going on, beware what’s going on.
 My dad used to have an expression when we left Scranton and moved down to Delaware. He said, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s like your dignity. It’s about respect, it’s about your place in the community. It’s about who you are. It’s about being [inaudible 00:01:49] and how it’s going to be okay.” Well, guess what, an awful lot of people can’t say that now. A lot of people can’t look at their kids now and say it’s going to be okay.
 I ran for three reasons and I’m going to stop and not keep you out here. Number one, I said when I announced that I wanted to restore the soul of the country, but I wasn’t being melodramatic. All I meant was restore basic decency and honor to the White House. When I saw those folk come out of those fields down in Charlottesville, carrying those torches and you close your eyes and remember what you saw, [inaudible 00:02:34]. They were carrying Nazi flags and talking about how [inaudible 00:02:40]. This country’s soul is so black with prejudice that it just… That’s when I decided I had to run. That’s when my granddaughter and the other three of them came to see me, after that happened, because they knew I was going to say, “Poppy’s got to run. We know it’s going to ugly.” Because their whole life, they’ve either had a father who was the Attorney General of the State of Delaware or a Grandpop who was the senator or Vice President. That’s why we ran.
 The second reason we ran is we’ve got to restore the backbone of the country. You all know it. The middle class built this country. Wall Street didn’t build it, the middle class built it. And Unions built the middle class. They’re getting clobbered right now. They’re getting clobbered. The third reason I’m running, is what I want to update about today and that is uniting this country.
 We have to unite the country and we can do it. I think the country’s ready. But I basically came to say thank you and thank you and thank you.
 It’s no sacrifice, it’s the greatest honor in my life. It’s the greatest honor in my life. I’m sure the mayor and Bobby feel the same way about serving. It’s a great honor. I want to thank you all and I know you’re out canvasing, knock on three or four thousand doors, we’ll have no problem. No, I’m only kidding with you. Exactly what you’ve done, I really appreciate it.
 Please welcome back to the stage, Lady Gaga.
 Please welcome business agent for Laborers’ Union Local 1058, John Duffy.
 Whoa. Hello, Pittsburgh. I’m Jill Biden’s husband and Lady Gaga’s friend. We go back a while. One thing I wasn’t going to say, but I’ll said now, she spent a lot of time helping me with the Violence Against Women Act and helping so many women who needed help. God love you, you’re wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
 Folks. John, thanks, old buddy, for sharing your story. And thanks to Mr. Mayor. I don’t know where you are, I can’t see out here, but I’ll tell you what, thanks for the passport into town. And thanks for all the speakers we heard tonight, as well as the incredible, as I said, Lady Gaga. I don’t know whether … You couldn’t see, but all my grandkids are over there, Lady Gaga. And when you were singing, knew every word of every song. They were jumping and moving. I got to get a picture with them. Anyway.
 My buddy Congressman Mike Doyle, Governor Tom Wolf, thank you for standing with me and fighting for the dignity of working people. Everyone you’ve heard from across the state, as well as in Philadelphia, we hear you loud. We hear clearly. Congressman Boyle been with me a while. Remarkable, great friend and friend of his family. His dad and I grew up five blocks away from one another in Scranton.
 Bobby Casey, Patti LaBelle, and John Legend. My Lord, John, I’m voting for you after I heard that speech you made. Look at the second future gentleman, Doug. Doug, I love you. You are a good man. And I want to thank the next vice president of the United States, a woman I am so proud to be running alongside of, Kamala Harris.
 Look, I know as a Scranton boy and then raised on the border of Southern Pennsylvania in Claymont, Delaware, I know it’s not always easy to bring Western and Eastern Pennsylvania together. But you know what, the Steelers got a big win yesterday, and the Eagles got a big win last night, so we can both be happy. And folks, I have a feeling we’re coming together for a big win tomorrow.
 My Lord, there’s a lot of you out here on this cold night. Thank you. And by the way, in the parking garage, don’t jump. I need you. Don’t jump.
 Folks, look, 18 months ago, we kicked off the campaign at Teamsters Local 249 right here in Pittsburgh. I chose Western Pennsylvania for my first stop as a candidate, and now for my last stop before Election Day, because you represent the backbone of this country. Hard work and families. We’re asking nothing but a fair shot, an even chance. Ordinary people doing extraordinary things. The qualities that built this country, that created and sustain the middle class. And by the way, as I said twice earlier today, unions built the middle class.
 Look. We’ve been through a lot in this country since we announced. America is facing a confluence of crises unlike anything in living memory. We’re still in the battle for the soul of America. Decency, honor, respect. Where has it gone with this president? Let me tell you something, folks. Tomorrow’s the beginning of a new day. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has left hardworking Americans out in the cold. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has divided this nation and fanned the flames of hate. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has failed to protect this nation.
 Ladies and gentlemen, millions of Americans have already voted. Close to a hundred million. And millions more will vote tomorrow. And my message to you is simple: the power to change this country is in your hands. In your hands. I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing that’s going to stop the people of this nation from voting, period. And when America votes, America will be heard. And America’s heard. I believe the message to be loud and clear, it’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home. I honest to God believe the vast majority of Americans are done with the chaos, the corruption, the failure, the irresponsibility, the indifference to American lives, the indifference to America’s dignity. We’ve got a lot of work to do. Not division and distraction, but real, real, real healing of this country.
 If you elect me your president, I’m going to heal this country, and we’re going to act. We’re going to act to get COVID under control beginning on day one. I’ll put in action a plan I’ve been talking about for months. Masking, social distancing, testing, tracing. A plan for full and fair and free distribution of therapeutics and a vaccine, when it comes.
 Imagine where we could be if the president only wore a mask from the beginning instead of mocked it. I can tell you this, as every expert will tell you, we wouldn’t have 9 million COVID cases in this nation. We wouldn’t have over 230,000 deaths and nearly a hundred thousand cases nationwide just two days ago. We wouldn’t be facing another 200,000 predicted deaths in the next few months. That’s what the experts are telling us. We don’t change, 200,000 more people will die by the end of the year.
 The President knew in January, as Kamala said, that this virus was deadly, but he hid it from the American people. He knew it was worse than the flu, but he lied to us. He knew it wasn’t going to disappear. He kept telling us a miracle was coming, it’d be over by Easter.
 Last Friday, he had the gall to suggest that America’s doctors, who’ve been on the front lines of this crisis for nine months along with the nurses and so many other first responders, he suggested those doctors were falsely inflating the deaths due to COVID because they wanted more money. For God’s sake. No, I really mean it. Think about it. Our frontline healthcare workers, they’ve suffered and sacrificed for nine months, and this president is questioning their character, their integrity, their commitment to their fellow Americans. It’s a disgrace. And last night, Trump went on to say he was going to fire Dr. Fauci. Well, I’ve got a better idea. Let’s fire Trump, and I’ll hire Fauci.
 Think about it. Look, Donald Trump has waved the white flag of surrender. Remember he said, “I’m the commander- in-chief, and I’m going to fight this fight.” Give me a break. He waved the white flag of surrender. I’ll never surrender. We’re going to beat this virus. We’re going to get it under control. And the first step to beating this virus is beating Donald Trump.
 Folks. Well, let me tell you something. Donald Trump keeps telling us what a great jobs president he is. As we say in my faith, bless me, Father, for he has … I don’t know. Jobs president. Here’s the truth. Donald Trump is going to be the first president in 90 years, that’s a lot of presidents, the first president in 90 years to finish his term in office with fewer jobs than when he started. An independent analysis, not from some liberal think tank, but by Moody’s, a Wall Street firm, projects that my plan will create 7 million more jobs and a trillion dollars more economic growth than anything the President has proposed.
 Folks, we can do this. I’m going to end Trump’s tax loopholes that incentivize companies to ship jobs overseas. That’s why there’s not as many jobs here. And I’m going to add a 10% surtax on any company that ships jobs overseas. But companies who invest in American manufacturing, bring jobs back, we’ll give them a 10% tax credit.
 And by the way, president of the United States awards about over $600 billion of contracts a year because of everything from building aircraft carriers to all that we do, all the government spends. I promise you this, and it violates no trade agreement, there will be no government contracts given out on my watch that don’t make all of their products here in America. The future will be right here in America, in Pennsylvania.
 Folks, Trump sees the world from Park Avenue, from Wall street. That’s all he can see. Well, I see it from Scranton, where I grew up. I see it from Pennsylvania and Delaware. Wall Street didn’t build this country; working people built the country, the middle class built the country, and unions built the middle class.
 My dad used to have an expression. He said, “Joe, the only way you can deal with the abuse of power is with power.” Well, the only outfit that can deal with the abuse of power of corporate America are union power. That’s the only way it can be dealt with. And I warn you all, if I’m elected, you’re going to see the most pro-union president in American history sitting in the White House.
 Look. I believe we should be about rewarding work, not wealth. Under my plan, as Kamala said, if you make less than 400,000 bucks, you’re not going to pay a penny more in taxes. But finally, finally, the wealthiest among us, the biggest corporations, 91 of which of the Fortune 500 paid zero in income tax, you’re going to start paying your fair share. Why? Why should an iron worker, a firefighter, an educator, a nurse pay at a higher tax rate than the super wealthy?
 Folks, and here’s a good one, why should you be paying more than Donald Trump pays in taxes? New York Times said he paid $750 in taxes one year. And guess what. When they asked him about it a little before that, he said the reason he only paid that is because he was smart, he knew how to game the system. Well, I’m sick of the wealthy guys gaming the system. Most are willing to pay their fair share, but let me tell you …
 By the way, he loves to talk about corruption. Oh, my Lord. He loves to talk about corruption. And you found out last week, he’s the only person I’ve ever heard of has a secret bank account in China where he paid, according to the Times, 50 times more taxes in Beijing than he did in the United States. Folks, as my mother would’ve said, enough is enough is enough. Look. We’re going to act to protect healthcare as well. Trump and the Republicans for the last 10 years have been trying like the devil to eliminate the healthcare plan. By the way, because of economic policies and so many companies going out of business, 10 million Americans have already lost their healthcare.
 And now Trump and the Republicans, they jam through a Supreme Court nominee for one overwhelming reason: they wanted to destroy the Affordable Care Act. If they get their way, by the way … This is not hyperbole. By the way, guess what’s going to happen. Seven days after tomorrow, they’re going to be in the Supreme Court arguing to wipe out, root and branch, all of the Affordable Care Act. Well, you can say that again because a lot of people are hurting.
 I can remember as a kid growing up in Claymont and Wilmington in a three-bedroom house, nice house, three-bedroom, split-level home with four kids and a grandpa. The walls were thin. I can remember one night, my dad, I could hear him restless in the room next to us, talking to my mom, and asking her the next morning, “What’s the matter?” She said, “Your dad, we just lost our health insurance.” How many people you know, staring at the ceiling, wondering what in God’s name are they going to do without health insurance? How many of them? How many …
 … without health insurance, how many of them? How many of them are worried like we were when our son came home from Iraq and was lying dying? I wonder what I would have done had they been able to come in, but for Obamacare and say, “Sorry, sorry, suffer the last month in the hospital in peace without your insurance, you’ve outrun your insurance.” How many people do you know? And many of you worry about it, worry about your kids, worry about what’s happening. Well, if they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for pre-existing conditions, including five million Pennsylvanians. It’s wrong. It’s wrong. Donald Trump, look, folks, being a great consumer of healthcare I feel very strongly about this. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it’s a right.
 I’ll not only restore healthcare, I’ll build on it. You can keep your private insurance if you have it, or you can choose a Medicare like option. We’re going to increase subsidies to lower your premiums and deductibles, out of pocket spending, surprise billings. How are you going to do that? Because Trump and his buddies are going to pay more taxes so you don’t have to do more. And we’re going to reduce, if it didn’t sound so strange I wouldn’t even explain, you’re going to reduce prescription drug costs by 60%. You know how? By making sure Medicare can negotiate with the insurance companies for the cost of drugs. We’re going to make sure you keep the protections for pre-existing conditions. Meanwhile, these guys are for real, unfortunately.
 Meanwhile, Trump’s announced what he’ll do if he gets re-elected with regard to social security. The actuary of social security has said if Trump were elected and gets passed what he wants it will bankrupt social security by 2023. Now, you all may think I’m making it up. But just like I said when Paul Ryan was the Speaker of the House. I said, “They’re going to cut Medicare,” and everybody looked, “No, no.” They tried to cut it by $5 billion right off the bat. Folks, these guys are serious. They’ve never fully supported these programs. I’ll protect social security, Medicare and Medicaid. You have my word on it. But folks, as we used to say in the Senate, if you excuse a point of personal privilege, there’s nothing that has made me more angry about this President than the way he’s spoken about those of you have served in uniform. Losers and suckers, he referred to you.
 Our son, Beau, his two children are with me tonight, he gave up his job as Attorney General to volunteer to go to Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, the Speaker’s Service Medal, he came home with brain cancer. And guess what? He wasn’t a sucker. He was a patriot like all of your sons and daughters. It angers the hell out of me the way he talks about our veterans. Your parents, your grandparents, all who have served. To the best of my knowledge, he’s the first President of the United States who has six generals and admirals who worked in his administration who have since left and said he was unfit to be Commander-in-Chief. Folks, that’s my General Stanley McChrystal, a former commander of special operations who oversaw the Bin Laden raid, Admiral Bill McRaven, and 22 other four stars endorsed me because they know I’ll have their back.
 It’s not happened before. Trump likes to portray himself as a tough guy, the macho man. Wouldn’t you like to have a shot? Anyway, the macho man. And he says people listen to him because he’s tough around the world. When’s the last time you ever heard of a President of the United States literally being laughed out loud by world leaders when he spoke with United Nations? So much for listening to him. When was the last time a President of the United States met with the NATO leaders at the NATO Summit, other world leaders, chancellors, presidents, prime ministers, and before they realize it, they were all making fun of him as he left the room? Folks, and can you believe we have a President who acts like Vladimir Putin’s puppy? Putin put bounties on the heads of American soldiers in Afghanistan, where I’ve been to many times. It’s a rough area, man.
 But Trump has talked to him six times since then and he’s been frightened to say or challenge him at all. Donald Trump isn’t strong, he’s weak. This is a President who not only does it not understand sacrifice, doesn’t understand courage, physical courage it takes to be in uniform. Folks, we’re going to support our military. They’re the backbone and spine of this country. Folks, we have to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis. Donald Trump calls it a hoax. I call it about our health and the ability to create millions of good paying jobs right here in Western Pennsylvania. We can combat climate change with American ingenuity and manufacturing, creating millions of new high paying union jobs. Let me be clear, I will not ban fracking in Pennsylvania. I’ll protect those jobs, period, no matter what Donald Trump says. But I tell you what, I will, I will no longer fund oil companies with subsidies, period.
 Folks, we have to restore the backbone of this country, but we also have to unify. Look, we’re going to act to deliver racial justice in America. Protesting is not burning and looting. The violence will not be tolerated. But the protests, there’s a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, Walter Wallace, they’re not going to be soon forgotten by me, not by anyone in this country. And they’re going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. When I met with Floyd’s family, when I went down to Texas, he has a little daughter, six years old, and I was in the room and I knelt down to talk to her. She looked at me and she said, “Mr. Vice President,” she said, “my daddy is going to change America. My daddy is going to change America.” Well, guess what? We also know that the American people realize we’ve got to change. We also know that justice isn’t just about criminal justice, it’s about knowing the true justice about jobs and building wealth for your families. No one should be working two jobs to stay in poverty. We need a minimum of $15 an hour minimum wage. And for people struggling, first term home buyers, they’re going to get a $15,000 tax credit from me. We’re going to provide capital for young entrepreneurs to start small businesses, provide free community college, which by the way, costs a lot of money, six billion a year. We spend about that much money giving breaks out for race horses, folks, as well as free tuition for students attending state universities if they come from families making less than 125 grand. Folks, we can do this, Pennsylvania. In 2008 and 2012, you placed your trust in me and Barack. In 2020, I’m asking you seeking your trust again. I take nothing for granted.
 This is a battle for the soul of America. We have to win this. We have to win this together. Bring the country together. I’m proud of the coalition this campaign has built, welcoming Democrats and Republicans and independents. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American President. There will be no red states and blue states. There’ll be the United States of America. I promise you I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of a President, the duty to care for everyone, the duty to heal. That’s the President’s job. So please vote. If you still have your absentee ballot, get into a drop box as soon as you can or vote tomorrow in person. Just make a plan and help get out the vote. The power is in your hands, Pennsylvania.
 And here’s the amazing thing, here’s the amazing thing about this moment in our history, the character of the country is on the ballot. On the one hand, we’re facing the biggest threats to who we are and what we believe that we’ve seen in our lifetimes. But on the other hand, our future has never been more promising. I’ve said it many times. I’m more optimistic about America’s future today than I was when I got invited and got elected as a 29 year old kid. And here’s why, we’re in a better position than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Fact, our workers are three times as productive. We have the biggest economy in the world, the strongest military in the history of the world, the most innovative entrepreneurs. We’re virtually energy dependent. We have more great research universities, out of which every major new changes come, than all the rest of the world combined, literally.
 No nation in the world can match us. We lead by the power of our example, not just example of our power. The only thing that can tear America part is America itself. No one else can challenge us. And that’s exactly what Donald Trump has been doing from the beginning of this campaign, dividing America, tearing us apart, pitting Americans against one another based on our race, our gender, our ethnicity, our religion. It’s wrong. That’s not who we are. And folks, everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s keep showing them who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lie after lie after lie. Folks, it’s time to stand up and take back our democracy. We can do this. We can be better than what we’ve been. We can be who we are at our best, the United States of America. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello Pittsburgh. It’s good to be back. I’ll tell you what. First off, let’s honk for the outstanding band, The Funky Fly Project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And special thanks to local and state elected officials who are here. I want to thank them a lot and I want to also thank your police department. I tell you what. They got a one heck of a motorcycle escort.
 You know, it was great seeing Franco again. I live in the other side of the state just below that town called Philadelphia, and I get in trouble because I talk about how much I like Pittsburgh and how much I like the Steelers. Now, let me tell you why. Franco and I were just in Latrobe together last month, and Franco and his teammate, a guy named Rocky Bleier, back in the day when the Rooney’s were really wonderful to me and my family. Because just a month after I was elected the United States Senate, I was 29 years old. It was December 18th. And it was a week before Christmas. I got a phone call, when I was hiring staff in Washington, saying a tractor trailer broadsided my wife and my three children Christmas shopping, and killed my wife and killed my wife and would kill my daughter. My two boys were very badly injured.
 So I hustled home as quick as I could. And I stayed with them in that hospital room because they were really in tough shape. But on the 23rd, I believe it was, I decided that I was going to go out to Kmart and get a plastic Christmas tree. You know, those kinds they have on display, because you weren’t allowed to have any Christmas paraphernalia in the hospital that could catch fire, but I could get one of those. So I went out and I was only gone, it was the only time I was gone. I was gone for about, I guess, an hour, hour and a half.
 And I came back and both my boys for the first time, they were little guys, three and four years old, almost four and five. They had smiles on their face and each of them were holding a football signed by the entire steel curtain, the Pittsburgh team. And I said, “What happened, boys?” And they was the first time they smiled. And they said, “Rocky Bleier and Franco Harris came,” because guess what happened? The Rooneys, really fine, fine people, the Rooneys decided that they were going to send Rocky and Franco to see my boys. No publicity. They didn’t do any press. Didn’t let anybody know.
 … he, they didn’t do any press, didn’t let anybody know, they spent 45 minutes with my boys, they got in the plane and went home.
 That’s who we are as a country. That’s something the President doesn’t understand, looking out for each other. The thousand acts of kindness, the decency that people used to show to one another, and still do, that he just doesn’t get.
 Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh there’s one more day, one more day to show who we are once again. Tomorrow we can end the presidency that has divided this nation. Folks in Homewood know, tomorrow we can put and end to a presidency that has failed to protect the nation. Tomorrow we can put an end to a presidency that has fanned the flames of hate across this nation, pouring gasoline on every racial incident in the country.
 Millions of Americans have already voted, over almost a hundred million now. Millions more will vote tomorrow. My message is simple, the power to change this country is in your hands. And I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing he can do to stop the people of this nation from voting, no matter how he tries.
 There was a press article last week, and it read as follows, “Never before in modern presidential history has a candidate been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to repress the vote as Trump.” Trump doesn’t want y’all voting. He don’t want Americans voting. He thinks only wealthy folks should vote. When America votes though, america will be heard. When America’s heard, the message is going to be out loud and clear: it’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home, go home.
 Look, we’re done with the chaos, we’re done with the racism, we’re done with the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, the irresponsibility, but we got a lot of work to do folks. If I’m elected president, we’re going to act, on day one we’re going to act to get COVID under control, on day one of my presidency I’ll put in action a plan that I’ve been talking about for months, masking, social distancing, testing, tracing, a plans for full and fair and free distribution of therapeutics and vaccines when we get one.
 And most importantly, but he hasn’t done yet, a plan, a plan that addresses the fact that we can get everybody access to the vaccine when it comes. Folks there’s over 300 million people in America, everyone, everyone is going to get help. A plan to address the disproportionate way the virus is hitting the black community and minority communities. We’re seeing race-based disparities all across every aspect of this virus; higher infection rates, lower access to testing, a harder time, quarantine safely, lower access to quality treatment when you become infected, and tragically higher mortality rates, three times as high as the white population. One in 1000 black Americans have died from COVID so far. And by the end of this pandemic, if things continue as he’s allowing them to do until the next president takes office, there will be another 200,000 deaths projected. And that would mean one in 500 African-Americans will have died because of COVID.
 That is absolutely outrageous. That is an attack, a mass casualty for black Americans. And this President, he knew in January how bad this virus was, in January he knew it. Some of you may remember vaguely if you turned on the television at the time, I wasn’t in office but I was talking about the fact that he got intelligence briefings laying out how dangerous it was coming from China, and where it was happening. And he said, no he didn’t read his intelligence briefing in the morning. Well, that didn’t surprise me, he doesn’t read.
 But turns out he knew exactly how dangerous it was. Remember what he said to Bob Woodward, the famous journalist? He went on tape and he said to Woodward, he knew in January how dangerous it was and how many people could die, and he said nothing. He didn’t say a thing to you, me, or anybody else. He kept it secret. He hid it from the American people. He knew it was worse than the flu. He lied to the American people. He knew it wasn’t going to disappear. He kept telling us, America was coming, or maybe we should inject bleach into our veins. I mean, whatever, God, what a… anyway.
 And just Friday, this past Friday, had the gall to suggest that the American doctors and nurses, who are literally risking their lives to save lives on the front line of this crisis for nine months, that he suggested that these folks, know what he said they’re doing? He said, “Doctors are falsely inflating the deaths due to COVID because they want to make more money.”
 Now think about that, president of the United States of America. But then again, it doesn’t surprise me, he wouldn’t do anything unless he could make more money, not a joke. Everything to him is about how do you help yourself?
 Folks, look the people of this nation have suffered and sacrificed for nine months, none more so than our doctors and our frontline healthcare workers. And it’s the President questioning their character, and their integrity, their commitment to his fellow Americans, the President questioning that? It’s a flat disgrace. And then last night Trump said, he’s going to fire Dr. Fauci. I got a better idea, let’s fire Trump, and I’ll hire Dr. Fauci.
 Look, the President has waved the white flag of surrender in this virus. I’ll never do that. He’s chief of staff said last week, “We’re not going to control this virus.” We’re not going to control the virus, the first step to beating the virus is defeating Donald Trump.
 Look folks, if we didn’t know this was happening, and somebody made a movie about this five years ago you’d think it was all crazy, but it’s real. It’s real what’s happening. Donald Trump, by the way, he keeps telling us what a great jobs president he has been, how many jobs he’s created. Well, I was just with President Obama in Detroit, in Flint, Michigan, my buddy. It was great to be with a president with real character. A President respected around the world, a President our kids could look up to. But did you know President Obama and I helped create more jobs in the last three years of our administration than Trump did the first three years of his, even before the pandemic hit? Did you know Donald Trump is going to be the first president in 90 years who’s going to finish with his four years in office with fewer jobs under his leadership than when he started as president?
 And black unemployment remains too high, too many black businesses are shuttered for good. Black-owned businesses are shutting down twice as fast as other businesses, and business communities of color have shuttered because they didn’t get the help, the money that Congress has passed. Congress passed over $2 trillion. You know the first thing what the President did? He fired the Inspector General, who’s supposed to follow where the money went. And guess what? Minority businesses, small businesses, they didn’t get the help. It went to the Mar-a-Lago crowd. Not a joke, his wealthy friends. He fired the Inspector General.
 You know, he sees the world from Park Avenue-
 He sees the world from Park Avenue. I have seen it from Scranton. I see it from where I grew up. I see it from here in Pittsburgh. Wall Street didn’t build this country, working people built this country. That’s always whose built the country, the middle class, and unions built the middle class.
 Folks, I believe we should be rewarding work not wealth in this country. Do you all realize that just as the pandemic started, the listed billionaires in America made another $300 billion? Not a joke, $300 billion they made in the middle of the pandemic. What’s going on here, folks?
 Well, I’ve got a plan, and under my plan I commit to you no one making less than $400 grand is going to see a penny in taxes raised. But for a change, the wealthiest and the biggest corporations, 91 of the Fortune 500 companies pay zero in taxes after making billions of dollars. Well, guess what? Under a Biden administration, they’re going to start paying their fair share. Why should a firefighter, an educator, a nurse, a steelworker pay a higher tax rate, and this is the God’s truth, a higher tax rate than the super wealthy? And by the way, why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump?
 I’ve released 23 years of my tax returns. I had the dubious distinction of being listed as “the poorest man in Congress” for 36 years. And then when I got elected vice president it says, “It’s probable no man has ever assumed the office vice president with fewer assets than Joe Biden.” I assumed they weren’t speaking about intellectual assets. It could have been, but who knows?
 Well, look, here’s my point, Trump and the only taxes that we’ve been able to find out through the New York Times in the one year he has, he paid $750 in taxes. Trump keeps talking about corruption. When’s the last time he heard of a president having a secret bank account in China? Which he did, we just found out, where he payed 50 times more tax in China than he did in the United States. Every time he starts talking about corruption, I say, “Release your tax return. What in the hell are you hiding? What are you hiding?” Not one…. Anyway, I won’t get into it.
 Look, we’re going to act to protect healthcare. Trump is going to Trump, like he just jammed through a Supreme Court nomination. You know why they did? To try to destroy the Affordable Care Act. Well, if they get their way, a hundred million Americans will lose the protections for preexisting conditions, including more than 5 million people here in the United States… I mean, excuse me, here in the state of Pennsylvania, over a hundred million in the United States. Millions of black Americans will be left uninsured and denied health coverage because of pre-existing conditions. And there are more preexisting conditions in poor communities than there are in others.
 Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it’s a right. Look, I’ll not only restore Obamacare, I’ll build on it. You can keep your private insurance. If you like it, you can choose Medicare like public option. I’m going to increase subsidies to lower your premiums, deductibles, out-of-pocket expenses, out-of-pocket spending, surprise billing. I’m going to lower prescription drugs by 60%, and that’s the truth. But by the way, how are you going to do it, Joe? Because those wealthy people are going to start paying their fair share.
 It’s not about punishing everyone, it’s about being fair. We’ll make sure that protections for people with pre-existing conditions remain. And meanwhile, Trump said, he’s publicly said if he’s reelected, he’s going to defund Social Security payments. The actuary in social security department said if he does that, that will eliminate, eliminate Medicare by 2023, after all the who people rely on Medicare. It’s not going to happen, by the way. We’re not going to let it happen, but that’s his plan. Go home and tell your grandparents and parents, we’ll protect Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, which he won’t do. And finally, we need a vote now to deliver some racial justice in America. Look, a season of protest has broken out all across this nation. Protesting is not burning and looting and violence, that can’t be tolerated, it won’t. But those protests are a cry for justice. In the name of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, Walter Wallace, Jr., they’re not going to soon be forgotten. They’re not going to be forgotten by me, not by us, not by this country. They’ll inspire a whole new wave of justice in America.
 When I met with Floyd’s family, he has a little daughter who survived him, she’s six years old, and I knelt down and I talked to her. I started talking to her. You know what she said? She looked at me, she said, “Mr. Vice President, Daddy is going to change the world. Daddy’s going to change the world.”
 Folks, the country is ready. The country is ready, but not with Donald Trump as president. Now he wants us to believe so much he’s done for black Americans. You might have seen the debate I had with him. I was standing next to “Abraham Lincoln”. He said, “Not since Abraham Lincoln has anyone done as much for the African American community as I have.” I turned to him and asked him, “Abe,” he got offended. He got offended. Look, Pittsburgh, honk if you think his commitment of having done more for the African-American community than Abraham Lincoln is true. Honk your horn. Silence. You got it, man. Pittsburgh, honk if you think it’s a bunch of malarkey, his lying. You got it.
 Look, the truth is, Donald Trump has done more harm black America than any president in modern history. This is the same man who started the Birther Movement against my buddy, Barack Obama. This is the first man, this is the man who when the first black woman running for vice president, he looks at her and he calls her a monster. Oh yeah, man.
 And remember on stage with him When I asked about the Proud Boys, that racist group of white supremacists. I said, “Would you deny them?” He turned and he said, “I’m going to tell them to stand down and stand by.” When in God’s name did you ever expect an American president to say, who refused to denounce white supremacy, doesn’t believe systemic racism is a problem and won’t even say black lives matter. Black lives matter. And we’re going to work to deliver real police and criminal reform, justice reform. We know, we know what true justice is all about. It’s not only about a criminal justice system that’s fair, but it’s about being able to build wealth, jobs, homes, families. Folks, we’re in a situation where, think about it, how many people you know are working two jobs and still being in poverty? We need a national minimum wage of $15 an hour for everybody, period. Honk if you agree with me. Honk if you agree with me and my proposal.
 For first-term homebuyers, first-time home buyers, I promise you are going to get a $15,000 down payment for the first home. Honk.
 Honk for new capital to start businesses, because black entrepreneurs are equally successful as any other entrepreneurs, but they can’t get access. That’s why Barack and I started a program to give $1.5 billion to local small business associations to lend money. That brought 30 billion off the sideline. Well, I’ve changed that to $15 billion, and we’re going to bring 150 off the sideline.
 Look, in addition to that, think about this. Education. Education is the key to movement. Well, guess what? There’s going to be free college education for state universities when I’m your president. I’m going to triple funding. And by the way, we can afford this, I promise you. I’m going to triple funding for Title I schools so a child can get a good public education, no matter what their zip code is. Allowing every three and four and five year olds to go to school, not daycare. That increases by 58% the prospects that child will go all the way through 12 years. And honk if you agree with me. I’m going to invest $70 billion in HBCUs at minority serving institutions. For real. [inaudible 00:28:35] institutions so future generations of black students can continue to get the very best education.
 Folks, Pennsylvania, 2008 and 2012, you placed your trust in Barack and me. Now in 2020, I’m asking for your trust again in me and Kamala. By the way, she is one smart, bright, tough woman, man. I’m so proud. She said yes. Look, I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president. That’s the job of a president, the duty to represent everyone, everyone. And you too have a duty. If you haven’t already voted, to vote tomorrow. Make a plan, get out to vote. Go to iowavote.com/pa and ask yourself if Donald Trump is so proud of his record, especially for African Americans, why does he make it so hard for us to vote?
 And then remember the final words of my good friend and American hero, John Lewis, who recently died. He said “The vote is the most powerful non-violent change agent you have in a democratic society. You must use it, because if not, it’s guaranteed you’ll lose it.”
 Folks, please, please. Here’s the amazing thing. Here’s the amazing thing, folks. It’s about this moment in history. On the one hand, we’re facing the biggest threats about who we are and what we believe that we’ve seen in our lifetimes. But on the other hand, our future has never been more promising. I said it many times. I’m more optimistic about America’s future today than I was when I got elected as a 29 year old kid. And I mean it. Here’s why. We’re better positioned than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Our workers are three times as productive as workers in the biggest economies in the world. We have the strongest military in the history of the world. We have the most innovative entrepreneurs. We’re virtually energy independent.
 (silence) We can do this. We’re better than we’ve been. We can be our best when we’re the United States of America. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Go vote. We can get this done, I promise you.
 You all must be crazy. As my mother from Scranton said, God love you. Thanks for being here. The one thing I’ve always been able to count on my whole career, unions. I know how to say union. I’m working for those unions. Hey folks, it’s good to be back in Beaver County. The fact is that we’ve been in a situation for a while here that… and Greg, thanks for the introduction, I do appreciate it.
 One of the things about the iron workers is that I think you’re all crazy. You know what I mean? I remember iron workers endorsed me early on when I first ran for the Senate as a kid. A guy name Tommy [Shrank 00:00:47], and I used to walk in the union all the time and say anybody who’s crazy enough to walk up 16 stories on beam and shoot a rivet has to be nuts. But thank God you are. Where I grew up, you either joined a trade, you became a cop, you became a firefighter or a priest. I wasn’t competent at being any one of them, so look what happened to me.
 Folks look, Conner thank you for being here and thank you for all you’ve done. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about more than just an election this time out. There’s an awful lot at stake, and of course you’re going to send Conner back. That’s all right, I’m used to babies. Babies are allowed to cry, and anybody’s allowed to cry if they want. Anybody’s allowed to make noise too. Oh, well, look, I wanted to come by to say thank you personally. Thank you very, very much for what you’ve done. As the Mayor’s here, they tell me… I don’t know where the Mayor is. Where’s the Mayor? There you are, hey Mr. Mayor, thank you pal. Being Mayor’s a real job. They know where you live and Terry and Rob I want to thank you and everybody all over Beaver County.
 Folks, look, the fact is that from the very beginning of my career, I found myself in a situation where I’ve relied on labor. And I hope I’m demonstrated that labor can rely on me. We’re in a home stretch now. We’re in a home stretch and as my coach used to say in high and college, “It’s go time. It’s go time.” Tomorrow’s the day. Tomorrow we’re going to send Conner back to Congress. We’re going to hear what labor has to say. We’re going to win Pennsylvania and we’re going to show the world what America stands for.
 Folks, as I said, I wanted to come by and thank you personally for canvassing. And thank the Mayor and everyone else that I just mentioned to you. The fact is that there’s a lot at stake in this election. We are really at one of those inflection points. This is going to be more than just who governs the next four years. What happens now, what happens tomorrow is going to determine what this country looks like for a couple generations. And that’s not a joke. I really generally believe that.
 There’s so damn much at stake. And as we get this home stretch, you find yourself going home. At least I found myself going home. This is like home. I’m from Scranton, Pennsylvania. I grew up in Claymont, Delaware. And it used to be a steel town that had steel workers, used to have 5,800 steel workers in the town. All gone, all gone now. We got to get it back. We’re not going to get it back in Claymont, but we can get it back here in the United States.
 And folks, the fact is that as I said we’re heading to a home stretch. We know the stakes have never been higher. We know they’ve never been higher. My dad used to have an expression. He’d say, “Joey,” he lost a job in Scranton when coal died when I was a kid. And we moved on to Claymont, Delaware. He took us home to my grand pops house. And he made what I call the longest walk a mom or dad has to make. Up a short flight of stairs to the kids bedrooms to say, “Honey, I’m sorry. You can’t go back to that school. You can’t play in that Little League club anymore. Dad lost his job. We’re going to have to move. We can’t stay where we are.” And he made that walk, took us over to my grand pop’s house in Scranton and what happened was he said, “I’m going down to Delaware. There’s jobs down there. I’ll come home every weekend. It’ll probably take me a year to get one. I can bring everybody down.” And so that’s exactly what happened.
 From that point on, when my dad would talk about a job, he’d say, “Joey, a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, honey, it’s going to be okay.” Not many people are saying that these days. Too many people are worried.
 I’ve never forgotten growing up in a hard working family in Scranton. The lesson that Donald Trump has never learned, because he can only see the world from Park Avenue. He can’t see what families like yours and mine have gone through. So he refuses to do the work to get this virus under control. He refuses to do the work to get our schools and our small businesses the resources they needed to stay open. Firefighters, teachers, cops, a whole lot of hard working folks. Refused to bring Congress together. They passed the money, but he refused to bring them together to provide for their families, the working families. Because he thinks Wall Street built this country. Well I got news for him, you already know it, Wall Street didn’t build America, middle class did and unions built the middle class. Unions built the middle class. That’s a fact. That is a natural fact.
 Look, I see the world from Scranton. I see this world from working class towns all around this state. And that’s why I build back better plan that I’m going to do is for the first time in a long time, we’re going to start rewarding work, not wealth. We’re not going to raise taxes for anybody making less than $400,000 bucks a year. If you make more than that, guess what? You’re going to start paying your fair share. You’re going to start stepping up.
 I’m going to ask the big corporations, the wealthy, to step up. 90 of the Fortune 500 companies, trying to railroad you guys, 90 of them, didn’t pay a penny in taxes. We’re going to invest the money that we collect of working people, creating millions of good paying union jobs. Two trillion dollars to build a more resilient infrastructure, roads, bridges, water systems. A whole lot more. Done by certified labor. And by the way, no matter how many times Trump tries to lie about it, I will not ban fracking. I never said I would.
 But I’m going to end Trumps incentives, to send jobs overseas. We have a trade strategy right now where you get 10% cut in your tax if you send a job overseas. We’re going to reverse it. You bring a job home, you get 10% and I want to promise you one thing, the president has control of $600 billion, handing out contracts for construction. For everything from building aircraft carriers, to public housing. Well here’s the promise I’m making to you, not one single contract will be let to a contractor who doesn’t have products that are all made in America. That’s a guarantee. Every one.
 We’re allowed to do that now, but we’ve never done it. It’s about time we stepped up and made sure people… by the way, one other thing I want to mention here. Donald Trump talks about himself as a tough guy. I grew up with guys like him around in Scranton. They thought because they had more money than us they could look down their nose at us. They thought that because they came from well known families, they somehow were better. Well let me tell you something, he talks about how tough he is, how hard working he is, how he’s done so much. Let me tell the things that bothered me most in this campaign and I have to tell you, the way he talked about our veterans as being losers, losers? What’s this guy all about? Who is he? He doesn’t understand what’s going on.
 Folks, my son was the Attorney General of Delaware. He gave up his seat to go fight in Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, [inaudible 00:09:02] service medal. And he came home and he died of cancer, but he came home and guess what? He was no loser. Trump’s a loser. And all of you who served. All of you who have served. I really mean it. Think about it, think about it. Is there any wonder why… this is the first president that I’m aware of. The six top Generals to work for him, six, four star Admirals and Generals, they all left to say he wasn’t worthy of being Commander in Chief. They quit.
 McRaven, [inaudible 00:09:44] Special Forces. There are the guys who did a lot commanding. They both endorsed me and they came along, 22 Four Stars stepped up and endorsed me because they knew I’d have their back as Commander in Chief. This guy doesn’t get it.
 I really mean it, many of you served. Took physical courage to do it. He doesn’t get it. Folks, we owe the military. One percent of the Americans, are protecting the other 99% of us. We owe them big.
 Look, we can only get this done though, we can only get this done in Pennsylvania, Pennsylvanians vote. We got to make sure everybody returns their ballot or votes tomorrow. Make sure everyone, everyone you know does the same. It’s time to rebuild the backbone of this country. The middle class, and this time bring everybody along. Everybody. It’s time to unite this country. There’s an amazing thing about this moment on history; on the one hand we’re facing the biggest threat to who we are, what we believe in our lifetimes, but on the other hand our future has never been more promising.
 I’ve said it many times, I’m more optimistic about America’s future today, than when I got elected as a 29 year old kid to the Senate. Here’s why: we’re in a better position than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Our workers are three times productive as workers around the world. We have the biggest economy in the world. The strongest military in the history of the world. We have the most innovative entrepreneurs. We’re virtually energy independent and we have more great research universities than the rest of the world combined.
 No other nation can touch us. No other nation can lead us. We can lead by the power of our example, not just the example of our power. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself, and that’s exactly what Donald Trump’s been trying to do from the very beginning. Divide America. Pitting American’s against one another. Rural versus urban. Based on race, gender, ethnicity, national origin, our religion. That’s wrong. That’s not who we are. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. But we’re about honor, integrity, dignity. This is the United States of America. We’ve got to let them show who we are. We choose, we choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction, and yeah we choose truth over lies, constant lies.
 [inaudible 00:13:03]. It’s time to stand up, take back this democracy. We can do this. We’re so much better than we’ve been. We can be [inaudible 00:13:23]… you have ever seen, I guarantee you a seat at the table. God love you all, and thank you, thank you, thank you. Let’s get this vote out. May God protect our troops. Thank you.
 I want to do something that I feel very proud about. The son I told you about who I lost, I want his two children to come up here with me. Come here. This is Natalie, don’t be silly.
 Hello, Cleveland. Whoa. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. And you guys can push the other something real quick, I tell you. Thank you very, very much. And Courtney, thank you for that introduction. And I want to thank Representative Marcia Fudge. We’ve been hanging out in the back here in the tent, along with [inaudible 00:06:51] out there, and Joyce is out here. Joyce Beattie, I can’t see it. Oh, there you are. Okay, I see you guys. And by the way, I want you all to meet, I got four of my grandchildren with me today. All my grandkids, stand up, stand up.
 They’re my good luck charms. They’re my heart. And Marcy and Joyce and Tim Ryan. Tim, you over there too? Hey, Tim. Tim, you’ve been so great the whole campaign. Thank you very, very, very much. And he as tough as nails. They’re all incredible leaders and we need to send them back to Congress, every single one of them.
 Folks, I want to thank my buddy, Sherrod Brown. No one fights harder for the dignity of working people than Sherrod does. Sherrod won reelection in ’18 about at the same margin that Trump did. And so when Sherrod tells me to come to Ohio the day before, I come to Ohio. That’s what I do because he and I have something in common. We married way up. He married a Pulitzer prize winner. I married a professor, and I tell you what, Connie you’ve been wonderful. Connie actually reviewed my wife’s book, I found out.
 Anyway, I want to thank you for being here. Folks, Ohio, one more day, one more day. Tomorrow. Tomorrow we have an opportunity to put an annual presidency. That’s divided this nation. Tomorrow we can put an ad to a president as has failed to protect this nation. And tomorrow we can put it down to a president who has fanned the flames of hate all across this country. Millions of Americans have already voted. Almost a hundred million have voted so far, a hundred million voted already, and more are going to vote today. And my message is simple. The power to change the country is in your hands. I don’t care how much Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing…
 No matter how much Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing he’s going to do to stop the people in this nation from voting. Folks, he hasn’t figured it out. Presidents don’t determine who gets to vote. Voters determine who’s going to be the president. When America votes, America will be heard. When America is heard, I believe the message is going to be loud and clear. It’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home. We’re done. We’re done with the chaos. We’re done with the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, the irresponsibility. We’ve got a whole lot of work to do.
 When I’m elected your president, I’m going to act, and I’m going to act on day one. Folks, we’re going to act to get this COVID under control. On day one of my presidency, we’re going to put it in action a plan that I’ve been talking about for months, and he’s been paying no attention to. Masking, social distancing, testing, tracing. A plan for a fair and full and free distribution of therapeutics and vaccines, when we get one. Imagine, imagine where we’d be, had this president, from the beginning, just wore a mask instead of mock wearing a mask.
 I can tell you this. We wouldn’t have 9 million confirmed COVID cases in this nation, wouldn’t have over 230,000 deaths, wouldn’t be seen those new record numbers of cases we’re seeing every single day, right now. Nearly 100,000 cases in one day, just two days ago. 100,000 new cases. We wouldn’t be facing another 200,000 projected deaths in the next few months.
 This president knew, last January, the virus was deadly, but he hid it from the American people. He knew it was worse than the flu. He lied to the American people. He knew it wasn’t going to disappear, but he kept telling us a miracle was coming. And just Friday, you had the gall… Figure this, now. The president of the United States of America, who’s responsible for so many deaths, he had the gall to suggest that American doctors, the people who have been on the front lines of this crisis for nine months, along with nurses and so many others, many of whom have died, to suggest that doctors are falsely inflating deaths due to COVID because they want to make more money.
 I’m serious, man. This guy’s a disgrace. The people of this nation have suffered. They’ve sacrificed for nine months, not more than those doctors and nurses and those healthcare workers. And this president is questioning their character, their integrity, their commitment to their fellow Americans. As I said, it’s a disgrace. And last night, Trump said he was going to fire Dr. Fauci. Isn’t that wonderful? I got a better idea. Elect me, and I’m going to hire Dr. Fauci, and we’re going to fire Donald Trump.
 Donald Trump waved the white flag of surrender to this virus. He did that. His own chief of staff said, last week, we’re giving up on the virus. We’re not going to do anything about it. I’m never going to raise the white flag and surrender. We’re going to beat this virus. We’re going to get it under control, I promise you. Look, the first step to beating the virus is beating Donald Trump.
 Donald Trump keeps telling us what a great jobs president he is. I was just with Barack in Detroit and Flint. It was great to be with a president of some character, a president respected around the world, a president our kids could and did look up to. But did you know that, after President Obama and I bet on American workers and helped rescue the auto industry, nearly 500,000 jobs created here in Ohio. Meanwhile, 330,000 of those have been lost since Trump’s become president. You know, Donald Trump is going to be the first president in 90 years… that’s a lot of presidents… in 90 years, is going to finish his four years in office with fewer jobs than when he got elected to office.
 It’s no surprise. Remember the lies he told all the workers. He told the families of the GM plant in Lordstown. He said, “Don’t move. Don’t sell your house.” But then the plant shut down. And after the first debate in Cleveland, I met an Ohio woman named Tiffany whose husband lost their job at the plant. And he had to take a job eight hours away in another state. He drives home weekends, 16 hours round trip, to be home with his kids. So much for “Don’t worry.”
 What about his threat and his grudge against Goodyear? What about his broken promise to protect pensions for workers, especially [inaudible 00:14:35] employer pensions? And what about… He stopped the overtime for millions of American workers, over $1,200,000,000 for American workers, the president and I was helping your delegation put in place. But let’s not forget how Donald Trump is wreaking chaotic with China on trade. Farm bankruptcies are way up. Exports are way down. Agricultural exports to China during the Trump years have been 40% lower than they were when we were in our second term.
 And he even says, because of his bailouts to the farmers… that’s your tax dollars, by the way… his bailout of the farmers, “Our farmers are doing better now than when they actually had a farm.” Can you believe that? Our farmers are doing better now than when they actually had a farm because they were able to be bailed out, although they may not have a farm anymore.
 Who does this guy think he is? My policies are going to hold China accountable. I’ll end the Trump tax loopholes that incentivized companies to ship jobs overseas. I’ll add a 10% surtax on companies who do ship jobs overseas. But for companies who bring and come back and invest in American manufacturing and bring jobs back home, I’ll offer a 10% tax credit. And folks, it’s no violation of any trade agreement, but no government contracts. And the president has about $600 billion in contracts from the military on down. No government contract will be given it to a company that isn’t have all the products, including the supply line, all products made in America, every product.
 Look, and our future will be made right here, right here in Ohio. Folks, we’re in a position that we can do so much more, so much more. Folks, Donald Trump forgot and betrayed Ohio workers. Quite frankly, I grew up around guys like Donald Trump. I grew up in neighborhoods like probably many of you did, working class neighborhoods where most people didn’t have a college education. But we had guys like Trump we used to play against, when we played ball and Scranton and [inaudible 00:08:07]. And because they had more money than we did, they kind of look down their nose on us.
 I got to admit to you. I got a bit of a chip on my shoulder, when I read about… Once we won the nomination and things began to look a little better, I read from serious press people… they’re decent, honorable people… that if I get elected, I’ll be the first president who didn’t have an Ivy League degree, in a long time. Well, let me tell you something. Somehow that’s got to mean I didn’t belong, because I went to a state university. But let me tell you what. It’s about time a guy from a state university graduated into the White House because, if I’m there, you’re going to be there, too. Look, Trump sees the world from Park Avenue, looking down-
 Trump sees the world from Park Avenue, looking down on Wall Street. I see it from Scranton and Claymont, where I grew up. I shaved from here in Cleveland. Wall Street didn’t build America, the middle class built America. And guess what? Unions built the middle class. That’s a fact. The day is long past time, we start rewarding work, not wealth in this country. Under my plan, if you make less than $400,000, you won’t pay a single penny, more in taxes. You have my word on it. But I tell you what, the wealthiest of MOS, big corporations, 91 of which don’t pay any tax, that paid zero federal income tax. They’re going to start paying their fair share. Why? Listen to me, why should a firefighter, an educator, a cop, why should a welder, why should a steel worker pay the higher tax rate than the super wealthy?
 It’s not right. Why should you pay for taxes than Donald Trump for God’s sake? Look, I released 22 years of my tax returns. You can look them up online. Donald Trump didn’t release any. Wonder what the hell he’s hiding. I wonder why he won’t let anybody know what his tax returns are. Who’s he owe the money to? This is the guy, by the way we found out recently has a secret bank account in China. Paid 50 times more tax in Beijing than he did in the United States. And overall, the one income tax the New York Times got, he paid $750 in federal taxes. How about you? And when he was asked how he could pay so little, remember what he said? He said, “because I’m smart. I know how to game the system.” And that’s the kind of guy you want as president? That can game the system, be a billionaire pay 750 bucks in taxes. While you all break your necks, break your necks to pay a fair share.
 We’re going to act to protect healthcare by the way. Trump and Republicans just jammed through a new Supreme Court nomination for one basic reason. Within a week after the election, they’re going to be before the Supreme Court and this new nominee is going to be out of the court. It’s all about destroying the Affordable Care Act, getting rid of it completely. They’ve been trying to do it now for nine years, if they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for preexisting conditions, including nearly 5 million folks here in Ohio. Look, Donald Trump doesn’t understand healthcare. He thinks it’s a privilege. I think healthcare is a right.
 By the way, because of the way he ruined the economy, even before the pandemic, 10 million Americans have already lost their employer-based healthcare because the employer has gone out of business. Now he wants to go after the 22 million, who have healthcare only because of the Affordable Care Act. I’m not only restore the Affordable Care Act, I’ll build on it. You can keep your private insurance, or you can choose a Medicare-like public option in the new plan. I’m going to increase subsidies and lower premiums and deductibles, out of pocket expenses and surprise billings. We’re going to reduce drug costs by 60% by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices for all of us. Folks, folks, it’s going to cost more money, but guess how I’m going to pay for it? Trump’s going to start paying some taxes.
 We’re going to make sure we keep protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Meanwhile, the Social Security expert, the person the Social Security department says if Donald Trump’s plan that he announced, if he’s reelected, he’s going to put in place, if in fact it’s put in place, it would bankrupt Social Security by 2023. This guy really cares a lot about this, doesn’t he? He really understands, [inaudible 00:22:56] my parents before me and everyone else paying into Social Security. So go home and tell your parents and grandparents, what a great deal they’re going to get if Trump gets reelected. But folks, the fact is I’m going to protect your Social Security. I guarantee it. Because I got people behind me who’re going to make sure it’s protected. We’re going to protect Social Security, and we’re going to have a situation where guess what? We have a majority in the United States Senate. Well, folks, look, the thing that’s bothered me most, maybe emotionally bothered me the most, but substantively as well. That this president has done, there’s been nothing worse than the way he’s spoken about those who have served in uniform. He called you all losers and suckers. My son Beau was the attorney general of the state of Delaware. My son Beau volunteered. He had to give up the seat of attorney general to volunteer, to go to Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, the Conspicuous Service Medal, and he saw the people die in Iraq. He was not a loser. He was not a sucker, he was a Patriot, just like all your sons and daughters, parents, or grandparents who served. Folks, six generals who worked in the white house with the president of United States and admirals worked in his administration have since left. And they’ve said he is unfit to be Commander in Chief. Best of my knowledge, that’s never happened before for any president of the United States. And that’s why special operations commander Stanley McChrystal, as well as the commander special ops and the Navy Seals who took out Brin Laden, along Bill McRaven, Admiral McRaven, along with 22 other four stars, they’ve endorsed me saying they’d be proud to have me as their Commander in Chief.
 This president likes to portray himself as a tough guy, a macho man. When the last time you saw a president of United States, literally being laughed at by the world leaders when he spoke to the United Nations? I don’t ever recall that ever happening. Can you believe when the president of United States, who acts like Vladimir Putin’s puppy, Putin put bounties on the heads of American soldiers in Afghanistan. Trump spoke to him six times and he was too frightened to challenge him. Why? Donald Trump is not strong, he’s weak. This is a president who not only doesn’t understand sacrifice, he doesn’t understand courage. Physical courage it takes for so many of you to put on that uniform. We must support our military. Let’s make this vote for them as well. God love them.
 We have to vote to meet the challenge, the climate crisis as well. We can act to meet that climate crisis. Trump calls the climate crisis a hoax. I see it as a great opportunity to improve our health as well as great millions of good paying jobs. I see America’s working to build and install 500,000 charging stations all across this country. American consumers switching to clean electric vehicles. We can own the electric vehicle market, creating minutes of jobs here in Cleveland and in Ohio and in Detroit.
 Folks, I see the federal government harnessing the purchasing power by buying these electric vehicles. Made in America, made in Ohio, made in Detroit, made in America-
 Made in Ohio, made in Detroit, made in America. It’s going to mean one million, according to the experts, one million new good paying auto jobs in the automobile industry alone. Folks, if we don’t act China’s going to own the market. China’s going to own it all. And we will act, in addition to deliver racial justice in America. Folks, protesting is not burning and looting, violence must never be tolerated and it won’t, but these protests are a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake will soon not be forgotten. You know I’ve met with all these families. Well I met with Floyd’s little girl, I think she was six years old. I knelt down to say, or to be at eye level with her. She looked at me and she said, I swear to God, said, “Mr. Vice President, my daddy is going to change in the world. My dad is going to change the world.”
 Folks, I’m not going to forget. You’re not going to forget. This country’s not going to forget. This is going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. But guess what? Because we have the X generation, I mean the Z generation, that in fact is the most open, least prejudice, best educated generation in American history. They’re already moving. They’re already insisting on justice. They know who we are. A new wave of justice America, but also true justice isn’t just about how they deal with police, it’s about jobs. It’s about building wealth. It’s about families. It’s about education. It’s about opportunity. It’s about being able to make a decent living. Nobody should have to work two jobs to stay out of poverty. That’s why, honk if you agree with me that a $15 minimum wage is necessary nationwide. Honk.
 Honk, if you think assistance for a down payment, for a real shot of home ownership should be coming forward with me with $15,000 for first time homeowner, to start a small business, send the child to college debt-free. Folks, Ohio in 2008, 2012, you place your trust in me and Barrack. In 2020, I’m asking you to trust me again. I’m proud of the coalition this campaign is built. To welcome Democrats, Republicans and Independents. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I’ll govern as an American president. There will be no red States and blue States, just the United States.
 And I promise you I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of a president, to care, to care about everybody, everybody. That’s the duty of a president. And look, you too, have a duty, a duty to vote. Folks, make a plan, go to Iwillvote.com/OH. Folks, the amazing thing about this moment in our history, on the one hand, we’re facing the biggest threat of who we are, what we believe, and what we seen, what we’ve been in our lifetimes. Another hand, our future has never been more promising. I’ve said it many times, the character of America is literally on the ballot.
 The character of our country, but I’m more optimistic about America’s future today than when I was elected to the United States Senate as a 29 year-old kid. Let me tell you why. We are better positioned than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Our workers are three times as productive as other workers. We have the biggest economy in the world. We have the strongest military in the history of the world. We have the most innovative entrepreneurs in the world and we are virtually energy independent. We have more great research universities in America than all the rest of the world combined, out of which all these doing inventions have occurred.
 No other nation can match us. We lead by the example of our power, not just by the power of our example. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself. And that’s exactly what Donald Trump has tried to do from the beginning of his campaign, divide America. The only way he can win, separate us. Pit Americans against one another based on race, gender, ethnicity, national origin. It’s wrong. It’s not who we are, but it’s his only prospect.
 Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s keep showing them who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction and yes, we choose truth over lies. Folks, it’s time to stand up. It’s time to take back our democracy. We can do this. We’re so much better than this. We can be our best, ladies and gentlemen. This is the United States of America. There’s not a damn thing we can’t do, nothing. So let’s get up and do it. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, hello, hello. Hello, Philadelphia. It’s great to these everyone. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I want to thank Bishop Reid. I really mean it. Sharon Baptist Church for letting us borrow your parking lot. And the DNC Vice Chair, I tell you what, that man can make a speech, can’t he? He’s pretty darn impressive. Vice Chair Blake, for all you do for our party and all you do to get out the vote. And thank you Congressman Dwight Evans for coming out and speaking today. And for all of you, all of you, all you do to fight for the people of Philadelphia and every single day in Congress. I also want to say thank you to Bishop Hunter and Reverend Mark Tyler, State Representative Morgan. Where’s Morgan. Is he … there you go. Okay. Thank you for being here. Thank you for being here. And Bishop Louis Felton, and also want to thank Sharon Baptist choir, church choir. Aren’t they great?
 You know, one of the things I most enjoyed about being back on the campaign trail was meeting with the Black faith leaders all around the country. The churches I get to go to during the primaries and over 400 Black leaders, church leaders, supporting us. Almost every Sunday I’d get to sit in the pew and get inspired. I’d go to mass first early in the morning, then I go to the Black church to get some hope and some invigoration, man. I’d talked to people. I talked to people, hear what was on their minds. Pray with them. And that’s what, it was renewing. It was not about me, but our entire family. Jill would be with me and my grandkids. One of my grandkids is with me today, who’s a senior here in Philadelphia in college.
 I also thought a lot about this campaign. It’s been unlike any other campaign in history. There’s one thing that remains the same, we have to earn our democracy. We have to get out and vote. And as my late friend John Lewis reminded us, freedom is not a state, freedom is an act. We have to defend it. We have to vote. And this is the most important election of our lifetimes. We’re at an inflection point. So we have to vote like we never did before. Every day, every day is a new reminder of how high the stakes are, of how far the other side will go to try to suppress the turnout, especially here in Philadelphia. President Trump is terrified of what will happen in Pennsylvania. He knows if the people of Pennsylvania get to have their say, if you don’t have your say, he doesn’t stand a chance.
 But the American people, the American people will not be silenced. Over 90 million people have already voted. Already voted. They’ve had enough. They’ve had enough. There’s too much on the line to sit it out, but we only have two more days. Two more days we can put an end to this presidency that has from the very beginning sought to divide us, to tear us apart.
 Folks, in two days we can put an end to a president that has failed to protect this nation. In two days, we can put and end to a presidency that fanned the flames of hate, poured gasoline on every opportunity he had all across this nation. As I said, millions of Americans have already voted. Millions more will vote in the two days ahead, but there’s still a lot of Pennsylvanians who haven’t voted yet, and we need every single one of you to get out and vote on Tuesday.
 My message is simple, Pennsylvania is critical in this election. I live in Delaware, but I’m a Pennsylvania boy born in Scranton. And I want to tell you, the last time Donald Trump ran he won this state by 44,000 votes. So every single vote matters. The power, the power to change this country is literally in your hands. I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries, there is nothing, nothing he’s going to do to stop this nation from voting. No matter what he tries.
 And folks, when American’s vote, America will be heard. When America’s heard, I believe the message is going to be loud and clear. It’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home. Time to breathe some life back into this nation. We’re done. We’re tired of the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, the irresponsibility. We got a lot of work to do. I’m I elected your president, we’re going to do it and we’re going to act and we’re going to start from the very first day. We’re going to act to get COVID under control. It’s almost criminal the way he has handled it.
 On day one of my presidency I’m going to put in action a plan I’ve been talking about for months, masking, social distancing, testing, tracing, a plan for full and fair and free distribution of therapeutics, vaccines, when we get one. A plan to address the disproportionate way this virus … vaccines when we get a one. A plan to address the disproportionate way this virus has been hitting and devastating the black community across America.
 Folks, every single day we’re seeing race-based disparities in every aspect of this virus. Higher infections rates, lower access to testing, harder time quarantining safely, lower access to quality treatment when you become infected, and tragically, higher mortality rates, three times as many African Americans are dying as white Americans … when they get the virus One in 100 Black Americans, excuse me, one in 1,000 Black Americans have died from COVID-19. And if we don’t change between now and January, it’s estimated one in 500 by the end of this pandemic. That is a mass casualty event in the Black community. And it’s totally unnecessary. Totally uncalled for. My public health plan will ensure the needs of communities that are being hit the hardest by this virus are a priority, not an afterthought.
 We’re going to have the plan to get our economy back on track. Not to get the back where we were, but to build back better, to make sure everyone is dealt in on a full scale share of the American dream. We’re going to address systemic racism and build real rural economic opportunity and equality for the Black community. The blinders have been taken off. The American people have seen, they’ve seen how bad things are. To make it easier to start a business, to buy your first home, to pursue an education after high school without being burdened with debt, to invest in HBCUs that do so much to mold Black leaders of tomorrow.
 I mean it. It’s not just talk. I mean it. We’re going to have to deliver racial justice in America. I see in all the protests here in Philadelphia and across the country a cry for justice. Folks, protesting is not burning or looting and violence must never be tolerated. It won’t. But the names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, Walter Wallace Jr., they will not soon be forgotten. They will not be forgotten by me, they will not be forgotten by you, and they’ll not be forgotten by the American people because here’s what they’re going to do. They’re inspiring a new wave of justice in America. And George Floyd’s little girl, six years old, said to me when I went to be with the family … I knelt down to say hi to her and she looked at me and she said, “Daddy is going to change the world.” Daddy, that’s what she said to me. Six years old. Daddy.
 Look, we can change the world. Not in one fell swoop. We can change it. We all know this country has to come together. We can not afford four more years of anger, hate, and division that we’ve seen under this president. Folks, look, from the day he announced, from the moment he came down that escalator, what did he say in New York? He said, “We’re going to go out and get those rapist Mexicans.” Rapist Mexicans. He put a ban on all Muslims coming to the United States. And the way he talked about the African-American community. The way he talked about the Hispanic community.
 Look, folks, we got to come together. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president for everybody. I will work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do support me. I mean it. That’s the job of a president, the duty to care, the duty to care for everyone. In President Biden’s America, there will be no red states or blue states, there will only be the United States of America.
 Look, our faith in our country is being tested, but our faith in God is helping us through because of all of you. Thank you for your commitment to the greatest commandment, love our neighbors as ourselves. And for our dedication to never grow weary of doing good. Being with you all reminds me of that gospel hymn that inspired so many of us. When I last talked to John Lewis, as he’s dying, he reminded me of it. I don’t feel no ways tired. I’ve come too far from where I started from. Nobody told me the road would be easy. I don’t believe he brought me this far to leave me. He did not leave us. We are not tired. The road hasn’t been easy, but we’ve come too far to stop now.
 So please vote. Get everyone you know to vote. We need to get every soul in Philadelphia to the polls. Your voice, your vote matters. Your voice deserves to be heard. And if you still have an absentee ballot, get it to a dropbox as soon as you can. Or you can vote on election day, but make a plan. And I mean it, make a plan now. Help get out the vote. Go to iwillvote.com/pa.
 Folks, folks, you know I’ve been doing this awhile. One of the reasons I got elected in the first place in Delaware across the line was because of the folks in Pennsylvania. All the media and Pennsylvania, all the media in Delaware for the first 25 years of my career was all Philadelphia television. There wasn’t no Delaware television. And I was very happy to have the moniker of being known as Pennsylvania’s third Senator. I know Philadelphia well. I married a Philly girl, by the way. And by the way, I got my Eagles jacket on.
 Folks, here’s what I want to say and I’ll conclude. You’ve been here a long time. I’ll never forget when President John F. Kennedy said, when he promised that we’re going to go to the moon. He said, he said words and my colleagues in the senate always used to kid me for repeating. He said, “We’re doing it because we Americans, we refuse to postpone.” Well, I refuse to postpone the incredible opportunities available to the American people. I refuse to postpone what we can do. There’s nothing beyond the capacity of the United States of America. Nothing. There’s no limit to America’s future. The blinders have been taken off. The only thing could tear America part is America itself. And that’s exactly what Trump’s been trying to do from the very beginning, dividing America based on race, religion, gender, national origin. It’s wrong. It’s not who we are. This is not who we are. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s keep showing them who we are.
 Folks, and I mean this, this is not just campaign rhetoric. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction and yes, we choose truth over lies, the multiple lies he repeats. It’s time to stand up. It’s time to take back our democracy. We can do this. We’re better than this. We’re better than what we’ve been. We can be at our best. This is the United States of America. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. I love you. I love you. You brought me to the dance. Thank you, thank you, thank you. God love you all.
 Keep the faith. Every time I walk into my grandpop’s house in Scranton, walk out the door, Bishop B’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.” When my grandmother was alive, she’d yell, “No Joey, spread it.” Let’s spread the faith.
 Hello, Flint. Mr. President, thank you, thank you, thank you. It kind of reminds you how good it can be listening to him, doesn’t it? As my mother would say about Barack, “God love him. He’s a good man.” Folks, it’s good to be back with friends. [inaudible 00:04:54], Governor Whitmer, Lt. Governor Gilchrist, Debbie Stabenow, my good buddy Gary Peters, who you are going to send back to the United States Senate, because I’m going to need him. We can always count on him to be your Senator for you and your family. And my good friend, Congressman Dan Kildee, who we need to send back to the House. Dan’s a good man, a good man. And of course I wish we could figure out how to send back a guy who…
 We used to have an expression up in Scranton. We’d say when someone wasn’t somebody else’s equal, we’d say, “He wasn’t a patch on his jeans.” I tell you what, Mr. President, you’re still driving him crazy because he knows he wasn’t a patch on your jeans. I tell you what, Barack Obama, it’s great to be with the president again. It reminds me what we can be when you have a president of character, a president respected around the world, a president our kids looked up to and did look up to. I want to say something we don’t say often enough, and I mean this on the bottom of my heart. Barack Obama was a great president of the United States of America.
 And I want to make sure we say it here today. Mr. President, thank you, thank you, thank you. Went through eight years without one single trace of scandal, not one single trace of scandal. It’s going to be nice to return to that. Flint, three days. Three days. We can put an end to this presidency we have now that has divided the nation. Three days. We can put end to a presidency that has failed to protect this nation. Three days. We can put an end to this presidency that has fanned the flames of hate all across this nation and made us a laughingstock around the world. Millions of Americans have already voted. Millions more are voting today, tomorrow, and God willing, all the way through to the close of the polls on Tuesday. And my message is simple. The power to change the country is, not figuratively, it is literally in your hands.
 I don’t care how hard Donald Trump tries. There’s nothing, let me say that again, there’s nothing that he can do to stop the people of this nation from voting in overwhelming numbers and taking back this democracy. And when Americans vote, no matter how many threats he makes, America will be heard. When America’s heard, I believe the message is going to be loud, and it’s going to be clear. It’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home.
 We’re done with the chaos, the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, refusing to take any responsibility. We’ve got a lot of work to do, got a lot of work to do. If I’m elected your president, we’re going to do it. We’re going to act. We’re going to need your help in doing it as well. We’re going to act to get COVID under control. On day one of my presidency, I’ll put in action a plan I’ve been talking about for months, already laid out, a national mandate. Mask wearing, social distancing, testing, tracing, all things, as President Obama just said, that should have and could have been put in place months and months ago. A plan for a full and fair, and free, I might add, distribution of therapeutics and vaccines when we get one.
 Imagine where we’d be if we had a president of wore a mask instead of mocking it. I can tell you this. We wouldn’t have 9 million confirmed cases of COVID in this nation, over 230,000 deaths. We wouldn’t be seeing a new record of cases we’re seeing right now. 90,000 cases yesterday. 90,000 new cases. By the way, 500,000 in just the past week. This guy tells us it’s going away. [inaudible 00:39:30] if he goes away. Folks, we wouldn’t be facing another 200,000 deaths in the next few months. This president knew in January the virus was deadly, and trying to improve his image. He tried to talk to Bob Woodward. He thought he could change his mind, but what he did, he let it be known all the way back in January, he knew how dangerous this pandemic was. And he hid it from the American people.
 He knew it was worse than the flu, but he lied to the American people. He knew it wasn’t going to disappear, but he kept telling us a miracle is coming. And yesterday, he had the gall to suggest that American doctors, people who are putting their lives on the line, on the front lines to save other lives, along with nurses and so many others, he suggested falsely that they’re inflating the number of COVID deaths to make more money. What in the hell is wrong with this man? Excuse my language, but think about it. It’s perverted.
 He may believe it because he doesn’t do anything other than for money. People of this nation have suffered and sacrificed for nine months, none moreso than the doctors in the front lines and healthcare workers. And this president is questioning their character, their integrity, their commitment to their fellow Americans. It’s more than offensive. It’s a disgrace, especially coming from a president who was waved the white flag of surrender to this virus. Our frontline health workers, they’ve given their all to beat the virus. We have a president who’s just given up. I will never raise the white flag of surrender. We’re going to beat this virus, and we’re going to get it under control. And the first step to doing that is beating Donald Trump.
 Look, Donald Trump keeps telling us what a great job he’s done as president. Oh, man. Well, did you know President Obama and I, as he pointed out, created more jobs in the last three years of our administration that he did in the first three years before the pandemic? How about this? Or did you know Donald Trump’s going to be the first president in nine years who’s going to finish his term with fewer jobs under his leadership than when he started? Look, that’s a lot of presidents. That’s a lot of crises, but only Donald Trump is going to have fewer jobs at the end of his presidency than when he started. You see, I and Barack understands something Donald Trump doesn’t. Wall Street didn’t build this country, you did. Working people built this country, and unions built the middle class.
 He’s done nothing but wage war on American labor. I see the UAW sign out there, first outfit ever endorsed me when I was a 29 year old kid. God love you. Look, we have a different view. We believe we should be rewarding work, not wealth, in this country. Under my plan, if you make less than $400,000 a year, you’re not going to pay a penny in additional taxes. But the wealthiest people, the biggest corporations… 91 of the fortune 500 companies paid zero in federal income tax last year. They’re going to start to pay their fair share. The super wealthy are going to pay the same rate they paid at the beginning of George Bush’s administration, and corporations are going to start to pay their fair share. Why should a firefighter, an educator, a nurse pay at a higher tax rate than someone making literally a billion dollars? Or should you? Why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump? He paid $750 in taxes, the one year we know of. I released 22 years of my tax returns. You can go online and look. He hasn’t released one. He talks about corruption. What is he hiding? He owes $41 million out there. Who’s he owe it to? If you notice, he’s the only president I know of that has secret bank account in China, paid 50 times more taxes in Beijing than he’s paid in the United States, and this guy talks about corruption. Look, we’re also going to act to protect healthcare. Trump and the Republicans just jammed through a Supreme Court nominee for one overwhelming reason. As Barack said-
 For one overwhelming reason. As Barack said, the president said, we have been, they have been trying over 50 shots to take out Obamacare, destroy the Affordable Care Act, but they’re going to be in court. I believe it’s seven days after the election. Win or lose, they’re going to be in court. If they get their way a hundred million Americans will lose protections for preexisting conditions, including more than 4 million Michiganders. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. Barack and I think it’s a right for people to have [inaudible 00:45:44] healthcare. We’re not only going to store Obamacare, we’re going to build on it. We’re going to keep your private insurance if you like it, and you can choose a Medicare like public option, if you don’t, we’re going to increase subsidies to lower your premiums and deductibles. Out of pocket spending, reduce prescription drug costs by 60%. Look, we’re going to make sure you keep the protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
 Meanwhile, Donald Trump laid out what he’s going to do in his second term, if he’s elected to [Social 00:46:17] Security. The actuary at the Social Security Administration says if he gets that plan passed, it will quote, bankrupt Social Security by 2023, something millions of Americans live on, paid for their whole life. When I said back six years ago, as Debbie will tell you, when I said the Republicans are going to try to eliminate Medicare, everybody said, “Nah, that’s crazy.” First thing Paul Ryan and Republicans in the Congress did, was cry to cut billions of dollars out of Medicare. These guys mean what they say. I’m going to protect Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, because there’s a lifeline for so many hard working folks.
 But folks I have to admit to you, it’s kind of personal with me. There’s nothing worse that this president has done in my view, than the way he speaks about our women and men in uniform, and those who have given their lives. He called them losers and suckers. My son, Beau, was a major in the United States Army, gave up the Attorney General’s job and petition to be able to go with his unit to Iraq for one solid year. After his US attorney, being in Kosovo, I might add I’m going to be a typical dad, he’s the only foreigner in Kosovo that has a 12 foot memorial dedicated to him.
 The major highway they built, the Beau Biden Highway because of his commitment. My son came home with a bronze star that could speak with his service but like so many others before he passed away. But guess what? He wasn’t a sucker. He wasn’t a loser, nor any of you who served, you’re patriots. And just like all of your sons and daughters, your parents or grandparents who serve. The president likes to portray himself, I love this, likes to portray himself as a tough guy.
 When you’re in high school, wouldn’t you have liked to take the shot? Anyway, that’s a different story, but anyway, a macho man, but when’s the last time you read about, saw or heard about a president of United States, literally be laughed at by world leaders when he spoke to the United Nations, laughed at out loud. When’s the last time you saw a president of United States being openly mocked by the leaders of NATO at a NATO conference? And can you believe we have a president who acts like Vladimir Putin’s puppy. Putin put boundaries out in the heads of American soldiers, serving in Iraq. And Trump was too scared to challenge him. Talk to him six time he’s never mentioned it. Trump’s not strong, he’s weak. He commands little respect to the international stage. This is the president who not only doesn’t understand sacrifice, you don’t understand courage, physical courage it takes to serve in uniform in a war zone.
 Maybe that’s why six generals and admirals who worked for him left his administration and said he was unfit to command, be commander in chief. When’s is the last time any president has had that happen? Tough guy. That’s why [Joy’s 00:50:07] special operations’ commander, General Stanley McChrystal. That’s why head of the Navy Seals, the one who saw the rate of Bin Laden, Admiral Bill McRaven, and 22 other four-stars have endorsed me say they support me to be their next commander in chief because like Obama and Bush and before him, they know we respect them, we support them.
 I’ve been in and out of war zones as Senator and vice-president over 35 times. I tell you what, these folks we have, only 1% of the country is in the military. We owe them, they’re the backbone, they’re the sinew, they’re the heart of who we are. That’s why we have to support our military and get rid of Trump. Folks, I want to tell you something, think about this. This is a guy who says there’s no such thing as climate change, he calls it a hoax. I see it as jobs, health, and safety. The impacts on climate are too often fall disproportionately on poor communities and communities of color. We’re going to make sure communities benefit from the hundreds of billions of federal investment in infrastructure and climate change. We’re going to do as a consequence of the change in the structure.
 We’re going to create local jobs to rebuild roads, fill sidewalk cracks, install broadband, create spaces to live, work, and play safely, to modernize infrastructure so you can turn on the faucet and clean water comes out. And when that happened in Flint will never happen again, anywhere in America. We can and must do this. Donald Trump has rolled back more than 100 environmental protection laws, many inactive under Barack and me. It’s also a host polluter, I’ll call polluters accountable with the most ambitious environmental justice agenda ever. Folks, we’re going to act to deliver on racial justice in America. Protesting is not burning or loading. Violent acts cannot be tolerated and it won’t, but these protestors is a cry for justice, the names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake will not soon be forgotten. They’re going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. America has had their eyes opened up, they’re ready. Look, I believe this country has to come together.
 I know when I announced well over a year ago, when I said I wanted to unite the country, everybody said, “That’s naive. That was a long time ago. You did it before Biden, but you can’t do it again.” Oh, we can and we must, we have no choice. That’s how democracies work. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president, I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of a president. It’s a duty to care, duty to care for everyone. So please vote, you still have an absentee ballot. Get it to a drop box as soon as you can. You could also safely vote earlier until Monday afternoon, or you can vote on Election Day, just make a plan, help get out the vote. As you’s heard this 10 times already, visit, iwillvote.com/mi. Folks, we have such an incredible opportunity.
 Well, God love you. Thank you very much, but here’s the deal guys. We got to vote up and down the ticket here. I honest to God believe, I give you my word as a Biden. I honest to God believe we’re in the cusp, we’re in an inflection point, we have a chance to make such enormous progress because the American people have seen what the other looks like. They’ve gotten a glimpse of the abyss. I really mean it, they’re ready. They’re ready to change so much. I’ll never forget what president Kennedy said when he promised to send us to the moon.
 He used the phrase that has guided me. He said, ” We’re doing it because quote, we refuse to postpone.” Well, I refuse to postpone the incredible opportunities to the United States of America for the American people. There is nothing beyond our capacity. There is no limit to America’s future. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself. And that’s exactly what Donald Trump has been doing from the beginning of this campaign, divided America, pinning Americans against one another based on race, gender, ethnicity, national origin, it’s wrong. It’s not American, that’s not who we are. Folks, everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s keep showing them who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction and yes, we choose truth over lies.
 My fellow Americans it’s time for us to stand back and stand up and take back our democracy. We can do this, we’re so much better than we’ve been. We can be what we are at our best. The United States of America. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, this young woman is the co-founder of Phoenix, of Sherman Phoenix, in Milwaukee, taking a neighborhood that was beginning to be a part of the ash then, and has brought it back to life miraculously. I am so proud to introduce Joanne Sabir. Come on, girl.
 I hope you got masks on everyone. It’s cold. Hello Milwaukee, it’s good to be back. I’ll tell you what, they told me it’s going to be indoors. You’re a hardy bunch in Milwaukee. Sheriff, how are you doing? Look, Terrence, thank you. Thank you for sharing your story. Thank you for your exercising your power as a young voter first time. You’re an inspiration man, and I want you to know that a lot of us in here growing up as kids understood what is like to know bullies.
 I had planned on saying this in light of your introduction, Sheriff and Tom’s heard me say this before, and the mayor. When I was a kid, I used to stutter. You want to learn what bullies are like, be a stuttering kid, talk like that everybody thinks they can make fun of you. So I’m used to bullies. Matter of fact, they used to have a nickname in school, Tom. They used to call me Shoe Leather. The reason they call me Shoe Leather, I was a little [inaudible 00:03:32], but you could beat me, but I’d hurt you. It’s like [inaudible 00:15:36] a shoe leather.
 But I’ll tell you what, I think you made a great metaphor about what’s going on here. You’re making your family really proud. And Joanne, I want to thank you for all you do to lift up this community, bringing pride and dignity and jobs in Milwaukee. My dad used to have an expression, he lost his job in Scranton, Pennsylvania when I was a kid and he took us to my grand pops, my mom’s dad, my grand mom was passed. And so he said you’re going to live here for about a year. I’m going to commute every day from Scranton, Pennsylvania, down to Wilmington, Delaware, where there’s jobs, Joey and when I get one, I’ll be back for you, and your mom, and your brother and your sister.
 My sister is with me today too, where’s my sister, Valerie? She’s my best friend in the world. Anyway, Val. And he said, it’s only 157 miles away. Wilmington, Delaware. He’d come home every weekend. And when we got down to Wilmington and he finally got a job, that we could bring us down and be able to rent an apartment, he used to always have an expression Sheriff, he’d say, “You know Joey, a job’s a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay. It’s going to be okay.””
 As Gwen knows, not an awful lot of people out there right now. A lot of hard working people who can’t say it’s going to be okay, they’re in trouble. Statistics show, for example that over 50% of the American people think actually it’s 49% to be precise, got a bill for 400 bucks in one month they didn’t anticipate, they’d have to borrow the money or sell something. So a lot of people were still hurting. And Gwen, let’s send her back because I tell you what, she is a voice from Milwaukee, a voice from the country, and I’m sure glad you’re on my side, kid. Sure glad you’re on my side because I’m on yours.
 I want to thank you all for welcoming me today and Tom, you’ve been a good friend and for a long time, thank you pal. Tom endorsed me when they said Joe Who’s running for what? Anyway, but thank you, Tom. And Sheriff Lucas and Sheriff Mahoney, and Ambassador John [Frenz 00:06:06], I want to thank you all for being here, there you are. Okay.
 Look, it’s great to be back with you. Folks, there was only four days left. Millions of Americans have already voted. They’re telling me now it’s up to about 85 million Americans have already voted and millions more are going to vote before this election is over.
 And I believe when you use your power, the power to vote, you can change the course of the country and quite frankly, right now the course of the world, because it’s leaderless now. We’re going to start right here in Wisconsin. If Tom remembers, I came up here to campaign for Hillary and for a whole lot of reasons, not all which were her fault ended up not taking it as seriously. We thought it was different. I’ve been here a lot. And by the way, when I got elected, if I get elected, I’m coming back, Tom.
 Look at these final days, we got to keep our sense of empowerment here. A sense of optimism. What we can do together. But I know it’s hard. More than 225,000 people, I think it’s 229 as I speak, have already lost their lives to COVID-19. 2,000 here in Wisconsin, 600 here in Milwaukee County, each one immortalized by an empty chair this morning at breakfast or tonight at dinner. An empty chair at MacArthur Square. And now folks are getting hit by a new big wave of infections across the country.
 This week, Wisconsin, like other states set a new record for daily cases. Hospitals are running short on beds, just had to open a field hospital. That’s what we’re facing. We’ve now had nine million cases in the United States of America. We make up 4% of the world’s population,, we have 20% of the world’s deaths, nine million new cases nationwide, another tragic milestone, millions of people out of work, on the edge, and they can’t see the light, they’re not sure how dark it’s going to remain.
 Wisconsin is down 20,000 manufacturing jobs since this pandemic began. And the thing that bothers me the most was a president who gave up. Over the weekend, his chief of staff said what we knew. “We’re not going to control the pandemic.” We’re not going to control the pandemic.
 Yet last week when I debated the president, he said, quote, “We’re rounding the corner. It’s going away. We’re learning to live with it.” You may remember what I said it may have been viewed as harsh by some. Told him, we’re not learning to live with it, you’re asking us to learning to die with it, because people continue to die. It’s estimated that over 200,000 more people will die between now and the end of the year by the leading experts who haven’t been wrong yet.
 Did you hear what he said today? He said today at a rally that our doctors are the problem because they’re putting their lives on the line, busting their necks, he said, they’re making up deaths from COVID-19 because they get more money. They’re making up deaths. People aren’t really dying from COVID, they’re dying from other things, but they’re saying it’s COVID to make the numbers go up. My Lord.
 By the way, is Monica [Wadry 00:21:53] here? Monica is an ICU nurse. I spent some time with Monica on the phone and her two kids and Monica told me what my son-in-law who’s a doc in Philly told me when this all began. While we’re waiting for PPP, the mask, and the gowns, and all the gear, so many docs, so many nurses, so many first responders after they did their job were afraid to go home because they’d take it home, the virus home to their children.
 Monica told me how her husband would wait in the garage so she could change and put on a [inaudible 00:22:32] before she went in the house and shower. So many people, over a thousand Monicas have given their lives trying to save other lives. And this guy says that they’re raking it up because they want to make more money.
 Doctors and nurses go to work every single day, Donald Trump should stop attacking them and start doing his job. This is the same man who told us, when he was told about four weeks ago, three or four weeks ago that we’re losing a thousand lives a day, remember what he said? He said it is what it is. Ain’t that useful? It is what it is. Well, it is what it is because he is who he is. That’s the problem.
 Donald Trump waved the white flag, surrendered to the virus. But the American people don’t give up. We don’t give in. Unlike Donald Trump, we’re not going to surrender to this virus. We’re simply not going to surrender. Look, I put in place a plan with this pandemic responsibly. I’ve set it up back in May, and then again in June, and in July, the way we can bring this country together around testing, tracing and masking. It’s estimated by leading doctors in America that if we just wore these masks for the remainder of this calendar year-
 For the remainder of this calendar year, we could save up to another 100,000 lives. Dr. Fauci, who’s been not treated very well by the President, who’s been with three other presidents in the same role, one of the most respected guys in the world, he’s called for a basket mandate. This isn’t a political statement of us wearing these masks. For God’s sake, it’s a patriotic duty.
 The reason you’re wearing the mask is not to save yourself, but to save your neighbor, the person across from you, the person who you’re next to. But still Donald Trump refuses to listen to the science. He’s politicized the race for vaccine as well. Instead of planning for its safe, equitable, and free distribution, what’s he doing? He’s talking about things that are just not in the rumble possibility, “We’ll have this by September. We’ll have it by…” it goes on.
 Look folks, he refused to bring leaders, by the way, of both parties together. You know, the House of Representatives, Gwen can tell you, has already passed three major pieces of legislation, two CARES Act, and then the Heroes Act, provides all the money that is necessary to safely open schools and businesses, and do it in a way that they can stay open. But it costs money, look at all the people who’ve gone out of business, all of the small businesses.
 We know how to open business, we know what to do it safely, but it costs, to open our schools nationwide, it’s estimated it’ll cost $200 billion to do it safely, to provide everybody with the PPE, [inaudible 00:25:50] everybody, change the ventilation systems, make sure you have separators, make sure you are in a position where we have the sanitary conditions that are wiped down, smaller classes, more teachers. But what are we doing? The money’s already been there, they’ve already passed it. What’s happened? The President hasn’t got out of his golf bunker in his golf course in the summer, or the bunker in the White House since then to bring people together.
 Look, find anybody Democrat or Republican, who served in the Congress, the Senate, the House, ask them can ever remember a time when there’s been a national crisis, and this is a national crisis, but the President hasn’t brought them all together, and said, “We’re staying here until we fix this. We’re going to work it out.” He hadn’t even talked to y’all.
 Look folks, we’re going to bring the Republicans and Democrats together, and deliver economic relief for working families, and schools, and businesses; I promise you. I know how to do this. As I said before, I’m not going to shut down the economy. I’m going to shut down the virus.
 Look, Donald Trump inherited a strong economy from Barack and me, but he squandered that economy, just like he squatted everything he’s inherited. Frankly I’ve dealt with guys like Trump my whole life, guys who think they’re better than you because they have a lot of money, look down on you because they live in a better home. But tell you what, we understand, we understand how this works. Folks, the people who built this country weren’t Wall Street, and investment bankers, and CEOs, they were hard working Americans, middle class folks, working class folks, who built the middle class, and unions built the middle class.
 We know, as Gwen said, we can build back better, with an economy that rewards work not well. Right now it rewards wealth, not work. We can do without raising taxes on any [inaudible 00:28:10] working person in the middle-class. I give you my word as a Biden, if you make less than $400,000, if I’m elected president, you’re not going to see a penny of your taxes go up, not a penny.
 He keeps lying about my plan, but I tell you what, I’m going to ask the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations, by the way 91 of the fortune 500 companies pay no tax at all, zero, zero tax. They make billions of dollars.
 Folks, it’s about time people start paying their fair share. It’s not a punishment. Pay your fair share. Why should a firefighter, why should a sheriff, why should a cop, why shouldn’t educator, why should a nurse pay a higher tax rate, which you do, then they pay? You do that, you pay a higher tax rate.
 And by the way, why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump? 750 bucks. This guy loves talking about corruption. I’ve released 22 years of my tax returns. You can go online and see them. And guess what? He hadn’t released one single year of his tax returns. What the hell was he hiding? What’s in there? Working families and middle-class people, you need help, they need help. Particularly first-time home buyers, being able to pay for a healthcare premium, childcare, carefree for your aging loved ones.
 Just to get a new hot water, and I don’t know about you, but the kitchen tables I was raised around, you’re sitting there, and I can hear my dad now, “Well, we can’t get those four new tires, you’re going to have to ride on those bald tires a little while longer till we get by next month; when that hot water heater goes out, what are we going to do?” Who’s going to tell her she can’t go back to the community college because you don’t have the money. They are the conversations taking place all across America today, and what’s Trump trying to do? Raise your cost for standard of living.
 He’s going to be in the Supreme Court, even if we win, he’ll still be the Supreme Court, in nine days, or 10 days, asking the Supreme Court, with our new justice, who was put on the court for the purpose of destroying the Affordable Care Act, to rip it out root and branch, eliminate it all.
 If they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for preexisting conditions, including 2.5 million Wisconsinites, 2.5. So if you have diabetes, you ever had cancer, if you had breast… whatever it is, whatever your previous condition, you won’t be able to afford it because they can jack up the price beyond your capacity. Women will once again, once again, be charged more for the same health care that a man is charged for just because they’re a woman. People forget that that’s what it was before we passed the Affordable Care Act.
 Look, Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege; I think it’s a right people should have. If we all get out and vote, we’ll not only restore Obamacare, but we’ll strengthen and build on it. So you can keep your private insurance, or you could choose a Medicare-like option that will add to Obamacare, which we tried, which we wanted to do the first time, but couldn’t get the votes. We’ll increase subsidies to lower your premiums and deductibles, out of pocket spending, and surprise billings.
 And we will reduce the cost of prescriptions by 60%. I’m not making that up. That comes from saying, we’re going to insist, and we have the votes to do it in this next election, that Medicare can negotiate with the drug companies to say how much they’re going to be willing to pay for whatever drug they have. Look, folks, we’re going to make sure we keep the protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
 Meanwhile, social security, the actuary of social security has said, if Donald Trump gets reelected, he says he’s going to change social security, based on the changes he wants to make the actuary and social security said, “Social security will be bankrupt by 2023.” I’m not making this stuff up, it’s real. Folks, I’m going to protect social security, Medicare, and Medicaid. And guess what? He’s not going to be able to do it because we’re going to win this election.
 Look, let’s not forget how weak Donald Trump has been, and chaotic. He talks about trade policy, my God, what a disaster he’s been. Trump’s trade policy has decimated, devastated the Wisconsin dairy industry. In 2017 to 2019, Wisconsin lost 15% of its dairy farms, and last year Wisconsin lost more dairy farms in any state in the nation. Since the start of the trade war, Wisconsin has seen mass lay off surge by 25%. And even before COVID hit, Wisconsin saw big declines in manufacturing jobs.
 After Trump rolled out his irresponsible tax giveaways, Harley Davidson slashed 800 manufacturing jobs, repurchased almost $700 million of its own stock so the corporate heads could get and make a lot more money, and none of it went to the employees, and then shifted some of its production overseas; so much for helping.
 Look, my policies… Right now, by the way, the deficit with China is higher than it was in our administration. Look, at the end of the Trump tax loopholes that incentivized companies to ship jobs overseas, these new laws just got passed for real, adds 10%, I’m going to add a 10% surtax to any company to ships jobs overseas. And companies that invest and strengthen the American manufacturing, or bring jobs back home, we’re going to offer a 10% tax credit.
 And by the way, the president of United States awards over $600 billion in contracts a year for our military, for all the things we build, federal buildings, well it’s not a violation of any trade law, no one’s done it, but I promise you I’m going to do it; not a single solitary contract will be awarded, unless all the products used by that contractor are made in America, all of them, right here in America.
 And by the way, when I talk about my economic plan, it’s not some liberal think tank that talks about how good it is; Moody’s, a Wall Street major firms pointed out, after looking at my plan for the economy and his, that we will create 18.6 million jobs under the Biden plan, a trillion dollars more in GDP than Trump. Folks look, the fact is that we’re now in a situation where this President is in a-
 We’re now in a situation where this President is in a position that he doesn’t know what he’s doing. If you notice, if you notice what Donald Trump has spent a lot of time doing, he spent a lot of time rolling out irresponsible corporate tax cuts. In the meantime, do you realize that during this pandemic, the billionaires in America, billionaires, they’re all listed, have made over $300 billion more? $300 billion more? How about you guys? You’re all doing great, right? You got all that money. Look, folks. We’re in a situation where the President now finds himself… The thing that bothers me most about all he’s done is the way he talks about our military being suckers and losers. Think about this. A lot of you women and men served in the military. A lot of us [inaudible 00:36:58] served. My son Bo gave up the Attorney General’s job in the state of Delaware to volunteer to go to Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, the conspicuous service medal. He came home with cancer after being near [inaudible 00:00:37:14]. He came home anyway. He was given months to live, and guess what? He wasn’t a loser. He wasn’t a sucker. He was a patriot, just like your sons and daughters, your parents and grandparents. Look, folks. If you ever wonder, Trump keeps talking about how strong he is. He’s strong and the rest of the nations listen to him. Everybody’s afraid of him. Well, let me tell you what. He’s the first President I’m aware of in American history that six generals, including his former Chief of Staff, six of them left, resigned, and said he wasn’t fit to be Commander in Chief.
 General Stanley McChrystal, Special Operations Commander. He’s the guy oversaw the Bin Laden raid. Bill McRaven, and 22, he oversaw. He was a SEAL. He head up the SEALs. And 22 4-Stars have endorsed me, saying they trust me to be the next Commander in Chief of the United States Military. Folks, it’s about respect. It’s about support, and that’s why the Military Times, which his staff tried to wipe out, Military Times just wrote an article saying more active duty troops support Biden than Trump. So much for the guy who talks about what a tough guy he is and why everybody listens to him. Look, that’s why we have to support the military, and we have to make sure we considerably invest more, which I don’t have to take the time to talk to you tonight about, but invest significantly more in dealing with the Veterans Administration.
 While Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy, we can vote to deliver racial justice. Folks, a season of protest has broken out all over this nation, and protesting is not burning and looting and violence, and must never be tolerated and won’t. That’s not protesting. But those protests are cries for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, they’re not going to soon be forgotten. Not by me, not by us, not by this country. We have to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis as well. More frequent, extreme weather. Literally, the planet’s at stake. We’re told the number of years before it’s irreversible is getting narrower and narrower. The West is on fire. More forest land has been burned to the ground than the entire square miles of Rhode Island and Connecticut combined.
 The Midwest is flooding. Here in Wisconsin, extreme weather incurs big cost for your infrastructure. Lake Michigan set a record high this past January, and the South and East hurricanes are more severe. Oceans are rising. My state’s only three feet above sea level, literally. People are worried what happens if we don’t change this. Folks, Donald Trump thinks that when you say climate change, he says hoax. Well, this stable genius, as he calls himself, also thinks that wind power causes cancer. The way to stop hurricanes coming across the warm Atlantic from Africa is to maybe drop a nuclear bomb on them. The same stable genius said the problem we had in the Revolutionary War, we didn’t have enough airports. And of the Revolutionary War, God saved the… Anyway.
 Look, when I hear climate change, I think the health of our children, the security of the planet, and I also think it creates jobs. Jobs here in Wisconsin, all across the country. Folks, combating climate change means saving the planet, protecting our health, and creating millions of good-paying jobs, union jobs right here in Milwaukee and all across America. We can change the path we’re on, but we have to act now, because we can’t afford four more years of Donald Trump. This election, I promise you, your grandkids are going to write about how it set the path for at least the generation here in America.
 You know, in 2008 and 2012, we came to y’all, Barack and me, and we asked for your help. You helped us, and each day we were in office, we worked for you and the entire country. I’m going to do that again. My 2020 campaign is a broad coalition. We welcome Democrats and Republicans and Independents. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I’m going to govern as an American president. There will be no blue States or red States, just the United States. I’ll work as hard for those who vote against me as those who voted for me, because that’s what a president is supposed to do. The duty to care. The duty to care for everyone.
 Look, you too have a sacred duty to vote. It matters. Wisconsin matters. So if you haven’t already, and most of you probably have, make a plan, vote. Get out the vote. If you’ve already voted, get your mom, dad, brother, sister, neighbor. Get them to vote. Go to iwillvote.com/wi. You’ve got to get it done to make sure everyone knows where to vote, when to vote. Look, a press article yesterday, speaking of Donald Trump, two days ago, actually, said, and I quote, “Never before in modern presidential politics has a candidate been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to depress the vote as Donald Trump.” So let’s be careful here. Guess what? He’s not going to be able to stop us, not at all. As I said, he’ll not silence the over 85 million people who have already voted. They’ve had enough. People are coming out in droves, waiting three, four, five, six hours in other states just to vote. Let me conclude by saying I’l never forget the phrase used by President Kennedy when he decided to send us to the moon, get to the moon. He said, when asked why, he said, “We refuse to postpone. We’re the United States of America. We refuse to postpone the incredible opportunities available to the American people.” I refuse to postpone the enormous possibilities we have. I’ve been around a while, but I’d never been more optimistic about America’s chances than I am today. I really mean it. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. Nothing. There’s no limit to what America can do. We’re the only country in the history of the world that’s come out of every crisis stronger than when we went in.
 The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself, and that’s exactly what Donald Trump has been doing from the beginning of his campaign, last time out. Dividing America, pitting Americans against one another based on race, gender, religion, national origin, ethnicity. It’s wrong. That’s not who we are. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s let them know who we are, who we are in the last four days. We choose hope over fear, unity over division, science over fiction, and yes, truth over lies.
 So folks, it’s time to stand up and take back our democracy. We can do this. We’ll be better than we been. We can be who we want to be at our best, the United States of America. I promise you, we can do this. You helped me get there. I promise you, I’ll take responsibility. When I make a mistake, I’ll acknowledge it, but I will take responsibility and I won’t let you down. God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thanks, everybody. I appreciate it. You’ve got to be freezing. All right. They’re telling me I’m going this way.
 Hello, Iowa. Hello, Polk County. Hello, De Moines. Back at the state fair. God love you all. Thank you for being out here today. Folks, I want to thank Ross. Thanks for that introduction. Ross, my heart goes out to you. It really is. I know it’s hard, but you’ve been turning loss into purpose, saving lives. People who in fact ask me about my circumstances in the past said the best way to get through it is with purpose, find purpose. And you’ve done that. And Governor Tom and Christie Vilsack, my best buddies. Thank you, thank you, thank you for all you’ve done for me before, now, and God willing after. Jill and I will always be grateful, grateful for your support and your friendship. And folks, Cindy Axly, God loved her. And Amy Finkenhower, Abby Finkenhower.
 I tell you what, you guys are the single best Congress persons I’ve campaigned with. You need leaders like you right now. We need more of you. We need more. We’ve got to elect them both. And by the way, we need Readon in the Second District and J.D. in the Fourth District. It’s time we can change things a little bit here. Right? Time to change it. I tell you what, and how about Theresa? I’ll tell you what, you have no idea how much you’re going to make my night when you win. You have no idea. And how you’re going to make everybody else’s night. You are as they say back in Scranton, you’re the real deal, kid. You’re the real deal. And you’ve never forgotten where you came from. And the I’m confident about is even going to Washington as a U.S. Senator, you’re not going to forget where you came from and who you are.
 Your values are baked in. They’re Iowa values. They’re American values. You value honor, decency, respect, and dignity. You know they all matter. They matter a lot. That’s who we are. And as we saw in the debate, where a farmer’s daughter knows a breakeven point for a price of corn, crops. You think that’d be fairly basic. That’s like my not knowing where the Delaware River was back home. Folks, but there’s something else. Theresa and I both lost our first spouses. We’ve both been single parents with young kids. We both found a way back from broken places. And we know that’s why you should elect this woman, Theresa, to the United States Senate. She sees, she understands, she believes. When she talks to you, when you talk to her, you know, and I’m not just saying this, you know she understands, she gets it.
 Just like our good friend Tom Harkin was your Senator. Teresa will be your Senator for Iowa. Not like her opponent, who’s Donald Trump’s Senator for Donald Trump. Folks, only four days left. Millions of Americans are already voting. Millions more are going to vote by late Tuesday night. I believe, when you use your power, the power of a vote, we’re going to change the course of the country and quite frankly the world. Right here in Iowa with all of you in the final days. Please keep your sense of empowerment. Keep your sense of optimism of what we can do together, because you know we can do anything. You know how I know how hard it is. More than 200, and now I think it’s up to 30,000 people have died, Americans dead, because COVID-19.
 Nearly 1,700 dead right here in Iowa. Iowa hit a record number of daily cases yesterday. It was over 2,300, and a record number of hospitalizations, more than 600. We’ve now hit nine million cases nationwide, a tragic milestone. And millions of people are out of work, on the edge, and they can’t see the light. They don’t know. It just looks dark right now for them. 82,000 Iowa jobs lost in this pandemic and still they’ve not come back. 70,000 jobs lost in Iowa since Donald Trump became President. Here at the fairgrounds, the Iowa State Fair canceled for the first time since World War Two, and Donald Trump has given up. The White House Chief of Staff said it out loud last week. He said, “We’re not going to control the pandemic. We’re not going to control the pandemic.” In the debate last week with Donald Trump, he said, “We’re rounding the corner. It’s going away.” And only he could say, “We’re learning to live with it.” Well, maybe you remember what I told him, “We’re not learning to live with it. We’re having to learn to die with it because of you.” Donald Trump has waved the white flag. He surrendered to this virus. But the American people don’t give up. Remember what he said when he did that interview, he said, although he knew about the crisis, he knew how bad it was back in January, the end of January, he decided not to tell the people, because he worried there would panic. Well, guess what? We don’t panic. He panicked. And he misrepresented to us. Imagine if you had told us in January how dangerous this was and took action. It’s estimated there would be over 130,000 people still alive.
 By the way, we don’t cower. Nor do I and never will we. Unlike Donald Trump, we will not surrender to this virus. I’m going to put in place a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly, which I laid out back in March, bringing the country together around testing, tracing, masking. It’s estimated by the leading doctors in America that if you just wore those masks for the next between now and the end of the year, we would save, just putting this mask on, we’d saved 100,000 lives. It’s expected that 200,000 more lives will pass between having the end of the year. Dr. Fauci called last week for a mask mandate. This isn’t a political statement. It’s patriotic duty, for God’s sake. But still, Donald Trump refuses to listen to science. He politicizes the race for a vaccine instead of planning for its safe and equitable and free distribution. He refused to provide schools and small businesses the resources and national standards where they can open safely and stay open. Well, I’m going to bring together Republicans and Democrats to deliver economic relief to working families and school …
 … together Republicans and Democrats to deliver economic relief to working families and schools and businesses. The Congress has already passed this legislation. It’s sitting there, but he refused, he spent all his time this summer in his golf course bunkers or down in the white house bunkers, think about it. I’ve been around for a while, I bet even Senator Grassley would have to acknowledge that I don’t ever remember any President in a crisis where there’s a disagreement in the house and the Senate between Democrats and Republicans, didn’t even try to bring them together to deal with this. The house back in May passed the Heroes Act, which would allow businesses and schools to open safely because it costs money, you need sanitation, you need ventilation, you need masking, you need distancing, you need separators. It all costs money, but it’s sad, one in six businesses are now out of business, because he won’t act. I’ve said before, I’m not going to shut down the economy, I’m going to shut down the virus.
 Even before the virus Donald Trump had already blown it, he inherited a strong economy from Barack and me, well like everything else he inherited, he squandered it. He squandered it, frankly. I’ve dealt with guys like Trump my whole life, so have you. Guys who think because they have a lot more money that they’re better than you, look down on you. I know, I acknowledge I got a little bit of a chip on my shoulder coming from an Irish Catholic neighborhood where it wasn’t viewed as that being such a great thing. When I read something about how if I’m elected President, I’m going to be the first non-Ivy league person to occupy the white house in a long time. Well guess what? Like somehow, I didn’t belong if I didn’t go to the Ivy league. Look, I’ll say it about time, it’s about time that a guy or woman or graduate from a state university is able to sit in the oval office.
 Because if I’m sitting there, you will be too, you know who really built this country? It wasn’t Wall Street, it wasn’t CEO’s, it was hard working folks like all of you who built the middle class and unions helped build the middle class. We know how we can build a back and build it back better with an economy that rewards work for a change, not wealth. We can do it without raising the penny tax on the middle class. I guarantee you, give you my word as a Biden no one making less than $400,000 year will see a penny in their taxes raised, no one, but I tell you what, it’s about time. The wealthiest people in America, the billionaires, the trillionaires, the multi-billionaires and the biggest corporations start paying their fair share. 91 major corporations out of the Fortune 500 didn’t pay a penny in tax last year, that’s tens of billions of dollars. They’re going to pay their fair share.
 Why should a firefighter, an educator, a nurse, a cop pay a higher tax rate, which you do than a major multi-billion dollar corporation. Why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump who paid $750? You want to know everything I don’t like about Trump? Let me tell you, I could capture it in one answer he gave. He was asked last time out about paying so little taxes, allegedly being a billionaire, know what he said? He says, “Because I’m smarter, I know how to game the system.” But he ain’t going to be gaming the system anymore in the Biden administration, they’re going to start paying. And we’re going to deliver tax relief for working families, the middle class to help you buy your first home, pay for healthcare premiums or childcare or care for an aging loved one, or being able to pay off your student debt for God’s sake. Look, where I come from it’s just about being fair. We’re not asking anybody to do any more than anybody else just be fair, decent.
 Trump got a Supreme Court Justice for overwhelming reason, by the way, never before has there ever been a hearing on a Supreme Court Justice once an election began. That’s never occurred, but you got his justice for one simple reason to destroy the Affordable Care Act. He’d been trying since the day he got elected, and if they get their way, $100 million people will lose protection for pre-existing conditions, including 1.3 million Iowans will lose it. Complications of COVID-19 are going to become the next preexisting condition. Allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, delay your coverage and a lot of young people don’t realize this, but before Obamacare insurance companies charged women more for the same healthcare they charge men because they could, that’ll end. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege, I think it’s a right. We all get out and vote. And by the way, they’re going to court in 10 days, 10 days, as he said to wipe it all out, end it, all of it.
 Well, I’ll restore the Affordable Care Act and I’ll strengthen and build on it, so you can keep your private insurance if you like it, or choose a Medicare like public option. We’re going to increase subsidies for lower premiums, deductibles, out-of-pocket expenses, surprise billing. As Theresa said, this time, we are going to make sure Medicare can negotiate with the drug companies for prices reducing them by 60%. I promise you we’ll get that done. We’re going to make sure we keep protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Remember what he said when he talked about the people who were dying and not dying, he said, “Virtually,” this is a quote from Trump, “virtually nobody’s dying, except for people over 65 with heart conditions,” like they’re disposable. It doesn’t matter with this guy. No, I’m not joking. Think about it, think about it. And then when he was told for the first time like we did today, 1,000 deaths a day, remember what his comment was? He said, “It is what it is.” Well it is what it is because he is who he is, that’s why it is what it is. These guys are something else, man. And meanwhile, the actuary at the Social Security Department says if Donald Trump gets what he’s saying, he said, “You reelect me I’m going to change social security.” The actuary says, “If the change occurs that he is promoting, it will bankrupt social security by 2023.” Go home and tell your parents or grandparents that, that’s a fact. Theresa said I’ll protect social, security, Medicare, Medicaid. And let’s not forget how Donald Trump weak and chaotic China trade policy has cost farmers and manufacturing so badly. Agricultural exports to China during the Trump years have been 40% lower than during the Obama Biden second term. On his watch and this really bugs me, on his watch ethanol margins have tanked and Iowa’s manufacturing facilities are idle and even closing. He even says, I love this quote from him. He says, because of his bailouts, “Our farmers do better now than when they actually had a farm.” I’m going to read that again. “Our farmers are actually doing better now than when they actually had a farm.” Where’s this guy from? Who does he think he is?
 Look, I’ll do what he’s been unable to do, I’ll mobilize a true international effort to stop China’s abuses so we can strengthen manufacturing and farming in Iowa and across the country. I’m going to hold China accountable, which he hasn’t from the pandemic on. Folks. But there’s nothing worse in my view than the way he has spoken about those who served in uniform. He called them losers and suckers. My son, Beau, many of you knew volunteered to serve a year in Iraq, gave up the Attorney General’s job to do it. Won the bronze star, the Conspicuous Service Metal and other awards, he was neither a loser or a sucker, he was a Patriot. And Theresa, so is your son Dane, who was in the army, he’s a Patriot like all of your sons, daughters, and all of those of you who have served.
 It’s no wonder that the six top generals in the President’s administration left and said, “He does not deserve to be commander in chief,” his own generals in his own administration. No President has ever had that happen, none. And that’s why Special Forces Commander, Stanley McChrystal, general and the head of the Navy Seals, Admiral Craven, along with 20 other four star generals endorsed me saying they’d be proud to have me as commander in chief. A sitting President. And that’s why the Military Times quotes more troops would vote for Biden then Trump. Folks, it’s not about me, it’s about him. That’s why we have to support our military. You vote for me, you’re voting for them. And while Donald Trump fails to condemn White supremacy …
 And while Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy, we can vote to deliver racial justice. A season of protest has broken out all across America. And by the way, legitimate protesting is not burning or looting. Violence can never be tolerated and it won’t. But those protests are cries for justice for George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake. They’ll not soon be forgotten, not by me, not by us, or not by this country.
 Folks, we ave to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis as well. More frequent, extreme weather. The West is on fire. We’ve lost more forest than the total space of Connecticut and Rhode Island combined, in the West. The Midwest I need not tell you is flooding. You know here in Iowa, the derecho, catastrophic floods and droughts that lay waste to lives, livelihoods and whole communities. And in the South and the East hurricanes are more severe. Oceans are rising. My state’s only three feet above sea level. People are already talking about the change we have to make. We don’t have a lot of time. Donald Trump, when you say climate change, he thinks hoax, and that stable genius, as he calls himself, continues to say wind power causes cancer. It’s the same guy who said, by the way you think I’m making this up, when he was advised about the increasing hurricanes coming across the Atlantic because of the warm water, he said, “Maybe we should drop a nuclear weapon on them.” Holy mackerel.
 This also a guy you may recall, the stable genius, he said, “The problem with the revolutionary war was we didn’t have enough airports.” And he talks about mental acuity? Whoa. Folks, you look at climate warming. You look at it the way I do. Creates jobs, Iowa jobs, jobs across America. You understand that here in Iowa we’ve already created thousands of good paying jobs because of your dominant in wind energy. And it’s expected that the number of wind jobs will double or triple by 2030 in Iowa. And notwithstanding that the stable genius says wind power causes cancer. Wind power helps save the planet, generates millions of dollars in economic growth, and provides good prevailing wage jobs.
 Folks, combating climate change means saving the planet, protecting our health, and creating millions of good paying jobs, Union jobs, in wind and solar and carbon capture. Iowa farmers were the first in the world to be in a position where they reach net zero emissions, because we’re going to make sure there’s a whole lot more land set aside and you get paid for it. Deep rooted products, emissions, reward them. Folks, we can do this. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. So honk if you want America to lead again. Honk if you want America to trust each other again. Honk if you want America to be united again.
 Folks, we cannot afford four more years of Donald Trump. In 2008 and 2012 you placed your trust in Barack Obama and me and we worked for you, for the entire country. Well, I’ll do it again in 2020. My campaign is a broad coalition, welcomes Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president. I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. In my administration, they’ll be no red states or blue states, just the United States of America.
 Folks, I mean this at the bottom of my heart. That’s the job of a president, a duty to care, to care for everyone, to heal. And you too have a sacred duty, a duty to vote. It matters. Iowa matters. So in these final days stay empowered, stay united, stay optimistic. Make a plan to vote, vote early, vote on election day, help get out the vote. Go to I willvote.com/ia.
 Folks, this president has done everything to try to discourage us, to try to convince us that it doesn’t matter, all about illegal voting, all the stuff he’s putting up, but guess what? He will not be able to stop us at all. Despite Trump’s efforts, a recent press article two days ago said never before “in modern presidential politics has a candidate had been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to repress the vote as Trump.” End of quote. We will not be silenced. 85 million people have already voted so far. We’ve had enough.
 Folks, look, I’ll never forget as a kid, the words of President Kennedy about going to the moon. He used the phrase, he said, we’re doing it because, ” We refuse to postpone, or I refuse to postpone, incredible opportunities available to the American people.” There’s nothing beyond our capacity. There is no limit to our future. The only thing that can’t tear America, look, I’ll talk about how we’re in trouble. Well, nothing can tear America part, except America itself. And that’s exactly what Donald Trump is doing from the beginning. Trying to divide America, pitting Americans against one another based on race, gender, ethnicity, national origin. It’s wrong. That’s not who we are.
 Look, folks, everybody knows who Donald Trump is. We got to let him know who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division, science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lies. So folks, it’s time for us to stand up, take back our democracy. We can do this. We’re so much better than we’ve been. We can be who we are at our best, the United States of America. There’s literally not a thing we’ve ever been unable to do, nothing. The only country in the world that’s ever come out of every crisis stronger than it went in is United States of America. And with your help, I promise you, that’s what we’ll do again. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Whoa. Holy mackerel. Hello, Tampa. Thank you so much, Chloe. You guys look like you’re so far away, you may be in Delaware. Great to see you all. Thanks for so many of you being here. As my mother would say, God love you all.
 Chloe, thanks for sharing your story and for all that you do. We often say that a person contributes to their community, but how many people can you name who have done more for this city and its people than Chloe? Chloe, congratulations. Turned abandoned buildings and dangerous lots into places of life and hope, making sure that bringing the community together to build homes for local families and helping young people around Tampa learn job skills, instill pride and purpose in neighborhoods that have been left behind, and laying the groundwork for economic opportunity that endures through generations. That’s the sort of work that changes the world. So thank you, Chloe. Thank you.
 I also want to thank all the other speakers here tonight, including your remarkable mayor. Jane, you’re something else, kid. Thanks for the passport into town. I appreciate it. And my friends, and these are my friends, Congressman Charlie Chris. You were there in the beginning, Charlie. Thank you, pal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And Kathy Castor, her district. I sought permission to come. She said, “Okay.” Thanks Kath. And Alan Cohn, who we’ve got to send to Congress. And I just spent some time with one of my best buddies. A guy I served with for a long time in the United States Senate, Bill Nelson. I haven’t served with anyone with more character, courage and decency than Bill and his daughter, Nan, and his son, Billy, as well as amazing Grace who is with him. She’s something else, isn’t she?
 Look folks, five days left. Five days, but who’s counting right? But who’s counting? Scranton. I got a Scranton sign here. I don’t know, man. I’m getting… Wilmington. I’m getting confused here, man. Millions of Americans have already voted, over 75 I’m told. 75 million and millions more are going to vote before this is over. And I believe when you use your power, the power of the vote, we literally are going to change the course of this country for generations to come.
 We’re going to do it both at home and abroad right here in Florida with all of you. You’re the ones who built this country. CEOs and Wall Street didn’t build this country. You did. No, not a joke. I’ve been saying this for years. Middle class people did, hardworking folks and unions built the middle class I might add. And you’re the ones who are going to save this country.
 Look, I said, I got in this race for three reasons a year ago, little over a year, and I meant it. The first was to restore the soul of this country. This is not who we are, is not who we are. We’re more decent, honorable. We’re more respectful. We’re better people than we’ve been seen from this administration. Second reason was to restore the backbone of this country, the middle class and bring everybody along this time. And thirdly, to unite this country. We have to unite us. These final days, keep that sense of empowerment with you. That sense of optimism, what we can do, what we can overcome. That’s the God’s truth. I’ve never been more optimistic about America and America’s chances than I am today. Because I know the American people. I know who we are. We have never, ever, ever, ever let the country down and give it a chance. And on November 3rd, we’re going to unite this country and show the world who American really is.
 I mean it. I know it’s hard. Over these past few months has been so much pain, so much suffering, so much-
 So much pain, so much suffering, so much loss in America. More than 225,000 people dead, 225,000. The estimates are, if we’d have acted responsibly, there’d be 160,000 fewer dead than there are today, because of COVID-19. We’re now past the nine million mark of people infected. More than 16,000 people in Florida have been lost, and millions of people are out of work, on the edge. They can’t see the light at the end of the tunnel. It’s like that old bad joke of my generation, it’s a freight train, because that’s what happens if he stays in office. Donald Trump has given up. Over the weekend, the White House Chief of Staff said, and I’m quoting, “We’re not going to control the pandemic.” It’s obvious he’s not.
 At the debate last week with Trump, he said, “We’re rounding the corner. It’s going away. We’re learning to live with it.” Remember what I told him? He’s asking us to learn to die with it. That’s what’s happening. Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to this virus. But the American people never give up, we never give in, and we surely don’t cower. And neither will I. Donald Trump just had a super spreader event here again. They’re spreading more than just coronavirus. He’s spreading division and discord. We need a President that’s going to bring us together, not pull us apart. I’ll put a plan in place to deal with this pandemic responsibly, bringing the country together around testing, tracing, masking. Leading doctors in America, including Trump’s own CDC Director and Dr. Fauci last week said that if we just wore a mask, between now and the end of the year, we’d save 100,000 lives.
 Folks, that’s not a political statement. It’s a patriotic duty, for God’s sake. But still Donald Trump refuses to listen to science. And we shouldn’t be politicizing the race for a vaccine. We should be planning for its safe use and free and equitable distribution, providing PPE for national standards for school, businesses to open safely. I laid out a plan back in May how to do that, bringing together Republicans and Democrats to deliver economic relief. That’s already passed by the Democratic House of Representatives for working families, for schools and businesses. I’ve said it before, I’m not going to shut down the economy. I’m not going to shut down the country. I’m going to shut down the virus.
 Donald Trump inherited a strong economy from Barack and me, just like he inherited everything in his life. Oh, it’s a fact. He squandered that economy like he squandered everything else. But folks, I promise you, I guarantee you, we can build back and build back better with an economy that rewards work not wealth, and we can do it without raising taxes a single solitary penny from working class or middle class families. I guarantee you, my word as a Biden, no one making less than $ 400,000 will pay a single penny more in taxes. Not a penny. But I tell you what I’m going to do, and I make no apologies for it, I’m going to ask the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations of the Fortune 500 companies, 91 making a collective billions of dollars, didn’t pay a single solitary penny in federal tax. Well, I’m going to make sure they pay their fair share.
 Why should a firefighter, an educator, a nurse pay at a higher rate than the super wealthy or corporate America? Because you do, you do. Why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump pays? If we made this as a movie 10 years ago, people would think we’re making it up. But it’s true. We’re going to deliver tax relief for working families of the middle class to help you buy your first home, help you pay for health care premiums, for childcare, for caring for your aging loved ones, for eliminating college debt. We’re going to take care of this. And we can afford it. Look, Trump got his Supreme Court Justice, and he did it for one overwhelming reason, something he’s been trying to do since the day he got elected, to destroy the Affordable Care Act. He’s going at it again. If they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for pre-existing conditions, cancer, all diseases that are out there.
 Folks, look, 8.4 million Floridians have pre-existing conditions. Complications of COVID-19 will become the next pre-existing condition, allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, deny your coverage. A lot of you young people don’t even realize it, but before we passed the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies charged women more for the same healthcare as men, just because they were women. Fact, Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it’s you’re right. If we all get out and vote, we’ll not only restore Obamacare, we’ll strengthen and build on it, so you can keep your private insurance if you like it, and you can choose a Medicare like option if you don’t. We’re going to increase subsidies and lower your payments and deductibles and premiums, out-of-pocket spending, reduce the unknown billing, reduce prescription drug costs by, according to the experts, up to 60%, by allowing, not making this stuff up, by allowing Medicare to negotiate for drug prices.
 We’re going to make sure you keep the protections for people with pre-existing conditions. We’re going to protect social security and Medicare, which they’ve been trying to cut for years. Meanwhile, the social security actuary, the guy who runs it, says the plan like Donald Trump says he wants to institute if he gets reelected, he says will bankrupt social security by 2023. As my wife would say, “Google it.” You’ll see what I’m telling you. You’ve got that right, pal. He said, “Trump is bankrupt.” By the way, he probably is. He owes $400 million to somebody. Anyway, folks, we have to vote. We have to vote for our military families. No, not a joke. Folks, of all the things Donald Trump has said, nothing has bothered me worse than the way he’s spoken to those who served in uniform. He called them losers and suckers.
 Losers and suckers. My deceased son, Beau Biden won the Bronze Star, Conspicuous Service Medal and other awards. Volunteered to go to Iraq for a year, gave up his attorney general job to go with his unit. He wasn’t a sucker, or a loser. He was a patriot. Like all of you who served. Like your sons, your daughters, your parents, and your grandparents. We have to vote for their dignity, respect they are due. We have to vote because while Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy, we can deliver racial justice while he’s trying to make it worse. Look, Donald Trump doesn’t believe that systemic racism is a problem. He won’t say black lives matter. We know they matter. That’s why a season of protest has broken out across the nation. But by the way, protesting is not burning or looting. Violence must never be a tactic tolerated, and it won’t. But these protestors are in a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake will not soon be forgotten. Not by me, not by us, not by this country. When I met with the family, his little daughter said, looked at me and she’s only about seven years, and I knelt down to talk to her and the family. She looked at me, and she said, “Mr. Vice President, my daddy is changing the world.” Well guess what? The inspiration coming from her daddy would happen, this new wave of justice in America. But true justice is also more than just dealing with abuse. It’s about economic justice. It’s about schools, housing, access to capital, good paying jobs, a minimum wage of a minimum of $15 an hour. Financial stability. Giving families of color a real shot to own their own home, start a small business, send a child to college debt-free, so we can build wealth and pass on opportunities through generations like we did like, so many middle-class families have in the past. But we have to vote to ensure the full promise of this country. We have to vote to meet the challenge of climate crisis. Because you know in Florida, it is a crisis.
 We’re all seeing the impact more than most. Devastating hurricanes to lay waste to all communities. Economic toll is astounding, and it grows every year, but the human toll is worse. Lost lives, lost homes, small businesses shattered. First responders put at risk from the West Coast burning, the middle part of the country flooding. Donald Trump when he thinks of climate change, he says hoax. Well, guess what? Speaking of hoaxes, remember what he said about these increasing violent hurricanes and the frequency? He actually said, maybe we should detonate a nuclear bomb over the Atlantic. By the way, the same stable genius who said, the biggest problem we had in the revolutionary war is we didn’t have enough airports. Whoa. Man, I tell you, what. His answer to families in Puerto Rico, struggling through Hurricane Maria was, what would he do? Toss rolls of paper towels at them. He doesn’t have any real answers. We know we can do something about it while combating climate change means jobs. We can unleash American ingenuity and manufacturing and build a stronger, more climate-resistant nation, creating millions of new high paying jobs.
 We can change the path we’re on. We’ve got to act now. Time is running out. This country can’t afford four more years of Trump, who thinks he’s only responsible to the people who voted for him. I don’t see the presidency that way. I see an American as an American. I’d run as a proud Democrat. But guess what? It’s starting to rain, and I’m going to shorten this for y’all. I don’t see America that way. In 2008 and 2012, you placed your trust in Barack and me. Well guess what? Each day we were in office, we worked for you, the entire country. It was never about red States or blue States, always about the United States of America. I was reminded of that last month when I visited Gettysburg.
 Folks, you know what? When I went to Gettysburg to make that speech, Abraham Lincoln said a house divided cannot stand. Well, a nation divided cannot stand. I was reminded of that earlier this week. Ladies and gentlemen, you got to go to, IWillVote.com/FLA. Become FL. Return your ballot today. I never forgot what President Kennedy said about going to the moon. He said, “We’re going, you know why? Because we refuse to postpone.” Let’s not postpone and get out of the rain. God bless you all. Thank you.
 Thank you all so much for being here. I tell you what, I do miss the opportunity to just wander in and shake hands with all of you. But we decided a while ago that we were going to try to be responsible and not be… I won’t get into it, but just be responsible. And so thank you for wearing your mask and thank you for the social distancing. And thank you for being here. Ladies and gentlemen, Manny and Patricia, I want to thank you so much for being here today, for sharing your memory of Joaquin. Folks, I know what it means to lose a child and many of you do as well. And no matter how often, no matter how long ago it occurred, every time you stand up and you want to talk about your son or daughter that you lost, it brings back the memories as if it happened 10 minutes ago. It takes a lot of courage to stand up and talk.
 And you feel like you have a black hole’s been ripped in the middle of your chest and you’re being sucked into it. But through your courage and the courage of the Parkland families, like my friend Corey Hixon and his mom Debbie and brother Tom who are here today and other students who led the march for our lives to take on the NRA and win. We’re going to help us all turn tragedy into purpose. I want to thank you for your bravery, thank you for your resolve. I want to thank all the speakers that went ahead of me, including the NBA stars joining us today. I tell you what, the Miami Heat. You ever heard of the Miami Heat, I guess? Well, I’m allowed to say nice things about the Miami Heat even though I come from Sixers country. I apologize for that.
 But I want to tell you, they made it to the finals full of grit and toughness. And Karl-Anthony Towns, Karl, he knows what it’s like to deal with this coronavirus. Karl and his dad lost their mom and wife back in April. And a lot of these families didn’t have to lose anybody. And, thank you very much for being here. As well as my friends, Congressman Ted Deutch, thank you for the passport, Ted, into your district. I appreciate it. And my friend, Debbie Wasserman Schultz. We got to send the votes back to the House of Representatives. We’re going to increase the numbers in the House of Representatives. Five days left folks. Millions of Americans are already voting, millions more are going to vote by the end of this week. And I believe when you use your power, the power to vote, you’re going to change the course of this country for generations to come, at home and abroad.
 This election is the most important one you’ve ever voted in. Whether it’s your first or tenth. Ladies and gentlemen, the heart and soul of this country is at stake right here in Florida. It’s up to you. You hold the key. If Florida goes blue, it’s over. It’s over. Look, the press has heard me say this a long time, Wall Street and CEOs didn’t build this country. People standing out here in your automobiles, you are the ones that built this country. The middle class built this country, and you just built the middle class. You’re the ones who are going to save the country now that you built it. In these final days, keep that sense of empowerment with you. That sense of optimism of what we can do, what we will overcome. I’ve never been more optimistic about America or the American people that am today. And on November the third, we’re going to unite this country and show the world who we really are.
 I know it’s hard. All these past few months have been so much pain, so much suffering. So much loss. Over 225,000 dead Americans because of the negligence and the consequence of COVID. More than 16,000 here in Florida alone. As I said in April, Karl-Anthony, he lost his mom. Millions of people out there are out of work, on the edge, can’t see the light at the end of the tunnel and Donald Trump has given up. Over the weekend, his White House chief of staff said, and I quote, “We’re not going to control this pandemic.” In the debate last week with Donald Trump, he said, “We’re rounding the corner. It’s going away. We’re learning how to live with it.” No, he expects us to learn how to die with it. That’s what I told him. He’s doing nothing. We’re learning to die with it and Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to the virus. But the American people don’t give up.
 We don’t give in and we surely don’t cower and nor will I under any circumstance. President Trump’s super spreader events that he’s spreading more virus around the country. And here in Florida today, he’s spreading division in addition, division and discord. We need a president who is going to bring us together, not pull us apart. I’ll put in place a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly. I’ve already done it and bring this country together around testing and tracing and masking. It’s estimated by the leading doctors in America, including Trump’s own director of the CDC and Dr. Fauci, they called for a mask mandate last week. If we just wore a mask over the next few months, we could save 100,000 projected deaths. 100,000 lives. We’re expected to lose another 200,000 people between now and the end of this year if we do nothing. This is not a political statement, it’s a patriotic duty for God’s sake. But still Trump refused to listen to the science.
 And we shouldn’t be politicizing the race for a vaccine either, we should be planning it safe and equitable and free distribution. Providing the funding for PPE, the mask and everything we need to protect ourselves. Setting a national standard for schools and businesses to reopen. Bringing together Republicans and Democrats to deliver the economic relief that’s already been passed in the House of Representatives for working families, the young employed, for schools, for businesses. Allowing you to stay in your home if you don’t have the money for rent. Allowing you to stay in your home. 20 million people are on the cliff of losing their home for next month’s mortgage payment. I’ve said it before, I’m not going to shut down the economy. I’m not going to shut down the country, but I’m going to shut down the virus.
 Look, when Barack and I left office, we left Donald Trump a strong economy, stronger than the one he handled. And just like everything else he inherited, he blew it. Now he’s squandering that economy like he squandered everything else. But we can build back and we can build back better with an economy that begins to reward work, not wealth. We can do without raising taxes on a single person making less than 400,000 bucks a year. I promise you that. My word. But if you make $400,000 and above, you’re going to start paying your fair share. Ladies and gentlemen, all we’re going to ask is the wealthiest among us and the major corporations just began to pay their fair share. 91 of the Fortune 500 companies pay zero in taxes after making billions of dollars. They have to pay a minimum tax. Look, why should a firefighter, an educator, why should a nurse pay a higher tax rate than the super wealthy? Why should you pay more taxes than Donald Trump pays?
 And that’s a fact. $750. Remember what he said when that was raised a while ago, how he only pays… He said, “Because I’m smart. I know how to game the system.” He games the system at your expense. He games the system at the expense of hardworking American people. We’re going to deliver tax relief for working families in the middle class. We’re going to help people buy their first home, pay for their healthcare premiums. And for childcare, we’re going to care for the aging and loved one. We’re going to make sure you can wipe out your college debt as well. We give more help to race horses than we do college students. Look, Trump got the Supreme Court justice passed and he did it for one reason to try to destroy the Affordable Care Act. Again, since he got an office he’s been trying to, and the Republican and have been trying to multiple times, try to get rid of the Affordable Care Act.
 If they get their way this time, 100 million Americans will lose their protection for preexisting conditions. If you have asthma, diabetes, any pre-existing condition, they can charge you so much you can’t afford anything. Including 8.4 million Floridians who have pre-existing conditions are now covered. Complications with COVID, heart scarring, lung scarring, heart disease, they’re going to become preexisting conditions. Allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, deny your coverage. And most people don’t remember it particularly the young people, women will once again be able to charged more for healthcare just because they’re a woman. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege, I think it’s a right of every American.
 If you all get out and vote, we’ll not only restore Obamacare, we’re going to strengthen it and build on it. The Biden plan is going to make sure if you have private insurance, you want to keep it, you can keep it. But you also have an option under my plan. To have a Medicare like option, a public option. We’re going to increase subsidies for lower premiums and deductibles, out of pocket spending. And we are going to reduce prescription drug crisis, the experts acknowledged, by 60%. Folks, we’re going to make sure we keep preconditions and protections for people with those conditions. We’re going to protect social security, Medicare. Meanwhile, the social security actuary says the plan that Trump says he wants to institute if he’s reelected would bankrupt security by the year 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, people paid that for their entire careers. Go home and tell that to your parents and grandparents. It will not happen on Biden’s watch.
 Folks, we need to vote for the legacy of Ruth Bader Ginsburg. She was proof that courage, conviction, and moral clarity can change the world without being vicious and mean. She and Justice Scalia disagreed in everything, but they were friends. They disagreed. We got to get back to that. Politics has become so ugly and mean and disruptive, but we can be the voices for justice in her name. We have to make our voices heard. You have to vote. You have to vote because while Donald Trump fails to contain white supremacy, we can deliver on racial justice. Donald Trump, he doesn’t believe there’s any such thing as systemic racism as a problem. He won’t even say black lives matter. Well, you know what I know, black lives do matter and so do others. That’s why this season of protest is broken out all across the nation. Let me make it clear, protesting is not burning, it’s not looting, it’s not violence and must never be tolerated and it won’t.
 But these protestors are a cry for justice from communities that have long, long had the knee of injustice on their neck. The names George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, [inaudible 00:13:45] They’re not soon going to be forgotten, not by me, not by us and not by this country. We’re going to inspire a new wave of justice in America, but true justice is also about economic justice, justice and education, housing, access to capital, good paying jobs. And by the way, it was long overdue time the minimum wage in America is $15 an hour. And by the way, my economic plan has been analyzed by the guys on Wall Street. You know what they say? They say my plan will create 18.6 million good paying jobs. 7 million more than he’s going to be able to create if he got elected and a trillion dollars more in economic growth. What he’s forgotten, when you all do better, everybody does better, everybody does better.
 It’s not a zero sum game, it’s about financial stability and giving families of color a real shot to own a home, to start a business, to send a child to college debt free. So they can build the wealth, pass on opportunity down through generations. Is that how every white family that came from my background got it? They were able to get a house and build an equity, pass it on and grow it. That’s what we’re going to do. But we have to vote to ensure the full promise of this country. We have to vote for new Cuba policy as well. This administration approach isn’t working. Cuba’s no closer to freedom and democracy today than it was four years ago. In fact, there are more political prisoners and secret police are as brutal as ever. And Russia once again is a major presence in Havana. So much for his policy. President Trump can’t advance democracy and human rights for the Cuban people or the Venezuela people for that matter when he has embraced so many autocrats around the world.
 Started with Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un of North Korea. Trump is the worst possible standard bearer for democracy in places like Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea. For my entire career, I’ve stood for democracy and human rights. For freedom of the press, assembly, freedom of religion and against dictators, whether they’re left or right. Folks, it unconscionable that the Trump administration says it cares so much are deporting hundreds of Cubans and Venezuelans back to their dictatorships. Trump loves to talk, but he doesn’t care about Cuban and Venezuelan people. He won’t even grant temporary protective status for Venezuelans fleeing the oppressive regime of Maduro who I’ve met with and he’s a thug. Folks, I will, but we have to vote. And finally, we have to vote to meet the challenge of the climate crisis. This guy doesn’t understand much of anything.
 You’ve all seen the impact more than most. Devastating hurricanes that lay waste to whole communities. Economic toll is astounding. It grows every year and the human toll was worse. Lost lives, lost homes, small businesses shattered. First responders put at risk. When you talk about global warming, Donald Trump thinks hoax. Well, then he says we shouldn’t… By the way, do you know? This is a guy who is the stable genius. Remember, he’s the guy that said our problem with the Revolutionary War, we didn’t have enough airports. God’s truth. He’s also the guy when he talked about how many bad hurricanes are coming across the warm waters in the Atlantic from Africa, he said, “Maybe we should nuke them.” And also by the way, windmills cause cancer according to him. Look, what’s this guy talking about? But we know that we got to do something about it.
 Combating climate change means jobs. We can unleash the American ingenuity and manufacturing to build a stronger, more climate resistant nation, creating millions of new high paying jobs. And we can change the path we’re on, but we’ve got to act now. This country can’t afford to wait four more years of Donald Trump’s denial, who thinks the only responsible to the people who voted for him. I don’t see the presidency that way. I don’t see the presidency that way. In 2008 and 2012, Florida placed their trust in me at Barack and each day we’re in office, we worked as hard for you and the entire country as we did not red states, blue states, it was always the United States of America. Folks, I was reminded of that earlier this month when I visited the sacred grounds of Gettysburg. Abraham Lincoln taught us that we need to unite our nation, that a house divided cannot stand.
 And I was reminded of it earlier this week when I went to Warm Springs, Georgia. Reflecting on FDR taught us about the need to heal the nation. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I’ll govern as an American president to unite and to heal. I’ll work as hard for those who didn’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of the president. A duty of caring, caring for everyone. And you to have a sacred duty, if I may say, and that’s to vote. It matters. Florida matters. In these final days stay empowered, stay optimistic, stay united. Make a plan and vote and help get out to vote. Visit iwillvote.com/fl. Return your ballot today if you haven’t done it so far, or you can get to vote early in person through November 1st. But you’ve got to get out and vote and make sure everyone you know votes as well.
 Folks, there’s nothing we cannot do from beating the NRA to restoring rationality and the climate. I’ll never forget what President Kennedy said when he promised to send us to the moon in his speech. He said, “We’re doing it because we refuse to postpone.” That’s what Americans do, refuse to postpone what is needed. I refuse to postpone my work america must do now. There’s nothing, this is not hyperbolely, there is nothing beyond the capacity of United States of America. There’s no limit to America’s future. We’re the only country in every crisis we’ve inherited, we’ve come out of it stronger than we went in it, because this is United States of America. And the only thing that can tear us apart is America itself.
 A president like Trump who appeals to our fears, president who pours gasoline in every flame he can find. Person who knows the only way he can win is if he divides us on race, nationality, national origin, gender. Look, everybody knows who Donald Trump is, we got to show them who we are. Article today in the press. I want to read a quote from. It says, “Never before in modern presidential politics has a candidate been so reliant on wide-scale efforts to depress the vote than Trump.” He knows if you vote, he can’t win. Why do you think they’re spending so much time keeping black folks and brown folks and poor folks from being able to vote? Why making it so hard? Because he knows when America votes, they reject people like him. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division and we choose science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lies.
 So folks, it’s time to stand up, take back our democracy. We can do this. We can be better than what we’ve been. We can be who we are at our best. As I said, the United States of America. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. I promise you. I promise you. And I promise you if you elect me, when I’m wrong I’ll acknowledge it. I’ll take responsibility, but I tell you what, I’m going to unite this country and we’re going to move like we haven’t in a long time. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for that incredible introduction. My name is Joe Biden. I’m Jill Biden’s husband, and I am Kamala’s running mate. You all think I’m kidding, don’t you? Folks, it gives me so much more optimism about the future to see that Maya and so many inspiring young people like Maya… That’s President Trump. He’s having trouble being heard over there. They’re a very polite bunch.
 Look folks, I think Maya, you’re inspiring and so many young people like you I’ve met all across America are getting so deeply involved, helping create the change that you know is possible. And of course I know you’ve had an incredible role model in Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms. I tell you what, she is something else. First of all, two things you got to know about her when you meet her. Number one, understand she’s smarter than you. That’s the first thing I had to learn. And the second thing is she’s got a backbone a ramrod, and she has a moral compass that’s true North. I really admire her. You’ve done an incredible job mayor. You’re a powerhouse of a leader and you’ve helped shape and support this campaign from the earliest days. So, I want to thank you, Mayor Bottoms, for your vision, your partnership, and your commitment to the campaign and the people of Atlanta.
 And thank you Common and Offset. I tell you what, I know that’s the real reason you came, the entertainment. I don’t blame you. But I tell you what, great to meet them both and for them energizing and sharing their message of hope with all of us.
 I also want to recognize the elected officials joining us today. Representative Billy Mitchell, representative Calvin Smyre, who have been with us from the very beginning of this campaign. And we got to send back to the United States House of Representatives, Lucy and Hank and Stanford. All three of them are first rate congresspersons because if I win I’m going to need them badly. And by the way, [Nikema 00:03:13], I think it’s important that you win as well along with Carolyn Bourdeaux.
 Folks, I think we’re going to surprise the living devil out of everybody this year. I can’t tell you how important it is that we flip the United States Senate. There’s no state more consequential than Georgia in that fight. You have two competitive races here at stake. You have two great candidates that are going to need all the support they can get. Reverend Warnock and Jon Ossoff, both great candidates. No, they really are. And by the way, if we had told you all a year ago or told those guys out in the street a year ago, good to see you man, told all those guys out in the street there a year ago, how competitive Georgia was going to be, you would have all looked at one another like you’re crazy. But look, it doesn’t take long for people to figure out when the game is up. When the Carney show goes through town the first time and people find out there’s no P under any one of the three shells, the next time it comes back, it doesn’t get much attention. Well, that’s what the Trump administration has done.
 Let’s give the people of Georgia to new senators who will fight for your interests, not for Donald Trump’s interest. And not continue as for doing others have to make fun of my running mate. I love how these guys try to degrade everything and everybody. It’s got to stop and it’s going to stop with us. Folks, it’s go time. There’s one week left. Millions of Americans, over 60 million Americans have all ready voted and millions more by the end of this week. I believe when you use your power, the power to vote will change the course of this country. Right here in Georgia, with all of you, these are the final days, so keep that sense of empowerment with you. That sense of optimism. What we can do. What we will do. What we can overcome. What we will overcome.
 Look folks, I’ve been around a while, but I’ve never been more optimistic about America or the American people than I am right today. But I know it’s hard. Over the past few months, there’s been so much pain, so much suffering, so much loss in America. More than 225,000 dead Americans because of COVID-19. 7,800 right here in Georgia. Millions of people are out of work on the edge. They can’t see the light at the end of the tunnel. And Donald Trump has given up. Over the weekend, his chief of staff of the White House said, I quote, “We’re not going to control the pandemic.” At the debate last week, Donald Trump looked at me and said, “We’re rounding the corner.” As my grandfather would say, “He’s rounding the bend.”
 He said, “It’s going to go away. We’re learning to live with it.” I told him, “We’re not learning to live with it if you’re asking people to learn to die with it. And it’s wrong.” Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to this virus. But the American people don’t give up. They don’t give in and surely they don’t cower and neither will I. I will put in place a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly, bringing this country together with testing, tracing, masking. It’s estimated that if we wore masks the next few months, by his own experts in the CDC and other agencies, if we wore this mask the next few months, we’d save 100,000 lives. 100,000.
 It’s estimated we lost over 135,000 lives so far needlessly because he’s done virtually nothing. But still Donald Trump refuses to listen to science. We shouldn’t be politicizing this race for a vaccine. We should be planning for its safe and equitable and free distribution when it comes, and it will. Providing for funding for PP, masks, gloves, all the things we need to set national standards for our schools and our businesses to open safely because they can. The House of Representatives already voted the money to provide for safe opening of these schools, but Trump was either locked in his sand trap in his golf course or in the bunker in the White House. He’s not brought anybody together.
 Think about this all if you’re old enough. Can you think of any president where there’s been a national crisis who didn’t bring all the parties together in the White House to try to solve something? He’s done nothing. Nothing. Well, I’m going to bring Democrats and Republicans together to deliver the economic relief for families, schools, and businesses. I said before, I’m not going to shut down the economy. I’m not going to shut down the country. I’m going to shut down the virus.
 Look, Donald Trump crashed the economy that Barack and I left him. Like everything else he’s left and inherited, he squandered it. We can build back better with an economy that rewards work not wealth. We can do it without raising taxes on the middle class. I guarantee you, no matter what you hear this president lying about, no one making less than $400,000 a year will have one penny in taxes raised. Not one penny. It’s a guarantee. But we’re going to ask the wealthiest and the biggest corporations. 91 of the top corporate companies in America paid zero federal income tax. We’re going to ask them to begin to pay their fair share. No one will pay at a higher rate than they paid at the beginning of the Bush administration. That’s who will deliver tax relief for working families, the middle class, to help them buy their first home, help them pay for their healthcare premiums or childcare or caring for an aging loved one.
 Trump got a Supreme Court Justice, and you know why he did it, it’s clear to everybody now, to destroy the Affordable Care Act, to take away the healthcare for 20 million Americans who have it. And over 100,000, 100,000 who are covered because they have pre-existing conditions for the first time, including 340,000 Georgians. A hundred million Americans would lose their protections for preexisting conditions, including more than 4 million here in the State of Georgia.
 Complications from COVID-19 are going to become the next pre-existing condition because of heart scarring, lung scarring, allowing insurers to jack up your premiums, deny coverage and women will once again be able to be charged more for their healthcare just because they’re women. Donald Trump thinks healthcare is a privilege. I think it’s an American right. Look, if we all get out and vote, you’ll not only restore Obamacare, but we’ll strengthen it and build on it so you can keep your private insurance or choose a Medicare-like public option. We’ll increase subsidies and lower your premiums and deductions, out of pocket spending, reduce prescription costs by 60%. that’s to the experts are telling me, and they’ll tell you. We’re going to make sure we keep the protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
 And by the way, I’ll protect Social Security and Medicare. Meanwhile, Donald Trump says if he’s reelected, he’s going to change how we fund it. Ladies and gentlemen, the actuary at Social Security said if he does what he’s proposing, if he’s reelected, Social Security will be bankrupt by 2023. Go home and tell your parents who work like hell for that, what that’s coming up.
 Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy. He doesn’t believe there’s systemic racism as a problem. And he won’t say Black Lives Matter because they do. We know they matter. That’s why a season of protests broken out all across the nation. Protesting though, is not burning and looting. Violence can never be a tactic or tolerated and it won’t. But much of it is a cry for justice from a community that long had the knees of injustice on their necks. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake, will not soon be forgotten. Not by me, not by us, not by this country. Folks, they’re going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. But true justice is also about jobs. Good paying jobs. The least as the mayor got done here, a $15 minimum wage and financial stability. We’re going to pass a national $15 an hour minimum wage.
 Nobody should have to work two jobs to be above the poverty level. It’s wrong. We’re going to change it. And by the way, when we do it, what all the experts will tell you, even the Wall Street types, we’re going to raise the economy, raise the standard of living for everybody. When folks at the bottom do better, everybody does better all the way up the ladder
 We’re going to give black and minority families are real shot to own a home, start a small business, send a child to college debt free so they can build wealth and pass on opportunity through the generations like everybody else who’s moved to the middle class has been able to do. We’re going to invest $70 billion in our HBCUs and minority serving institutions so students like Maya studied at Howard or students at Morehouse, Spelman, Clark Atlanta University. The future generations of proud students continue to get the very best education. And by the way, in the White House, I’ve committed, there is going to be in the outreach community, a section of The Divine Nine will be included. That’s a promise.
 I’ve been told that I kind of grew up with a little bit of a chip on my shoulder being an Irish Catholic kid in a town that kind of looked down on it. I tell you what, I didn’t realize I do, but I realized I do have a chip on my shoulder. When I read from serious people about eight months ago, something about how if I were elected president, I’d be the first president who didn’t go to an Ivy league school in a long time. Like somehow it meant I didn’t belong. I know Senator Harris will be the first HBCU graduate to serve as vice president. And I say it’s about time a graduate from a state university and a HBCU graduate are in the White House. Don’t tell me we can’t do it because if we’re sitting there, you will be there, too. I promise you.
 Folks, I’m optimistic because I know that we can meet the challenge of the climate crisis by unleashing American ingenuity and manufacturing to create millions of new high paying jobs, investing in technology and research. Folks, this is all in our capacity. We can do this.
 There aren’t a lot of pundits who would’ve guessed four years ago that a Democratic candidate for president of 2020 would be campaigning in Georgia on the final week of the election. Or that we’d have such competitive Senate races in Georgia, but we do because something’s happening here in Georgia and across America. People of different races, backgrounds, Democrats, Republicans, independents, they’re coming together to transcend the old divides and show it’s possible. And this is the most important election in any of your lifetimes. It’s a battle, as I said at the outset, for the soul of America, and we’re showing who we are. You and I, Reverend Warnock, Jon Ossoff, all of us. This country can’t afford four more years of Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell. They can’t afford four more years of leaders who think they’re only responsible for people who vote for them.
 Folks, I don’t see America that way. This has to change. It will change with me. Every American, including the guys on the other side of the fence, will be seen and heard and respected by me. If elected president, there will be no red states or blue states, there’ll only be the United States of America. I was reminded of that earlier this month when I went to the sacred grounds of Gettysburg. Abraham Lincoln taught us about the need of united nation. I was reminded of that earlier today when I was up in Warm Springs, reflecting on Franklin Roosevelt, taught us about the need to heal our nation. Folks, I’m running as a proud Democrat but I’ll govern as an American president to unite and to heal.
 I promise you, look at my whole career. I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of a president. A duty to care for everyone. So in these final days, stay empowered, stay optimistic, stay united because you too have a sacred duty. The duty to vote. It matters. Georgia, it matters. So, please vote. Help get out the vote. Early in-person voting in Georgia goes through October 30th. If you’re voting by mail, return your ballot as soon as possible and make sure everyone you know does the same. Don’t just take yourself to the polls, bring your brother, your sister, your mom, your dad, your neighbor, your friends. Drop your ballot off in a ballot box. Visit IWillVote.com/GA to find the location in your community.
 And remember, remember the final words left to us by your late Congressman and my personal friend, an American hero, John Lewis. He said, “The vote is the most powerful, nonviolent change agent you have in a Democratic society.” He went on to say, “You must use it. It’s not guaranteed. You can lose it.” Use it. You have the power to win this election. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. There’s no limit on America’s future. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself. No other nation can do it. Only America can tear America apart. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s show them who we are. We choose hope over fear, unity over division, science over fiction, and yes, truth over lies. So folks, it’s time to stand up and take back our democracy and any place, we can do it here in Georgia. We win Georgia, we win everything. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you, thank you, thank you. All right. Thank you.
 Hello, hello, hello. What a magnificent setting. It’s hard, when you’re driving here, not to think of the circumstances President Roosevelt faced and how he overcame so much for so many. So, good afternoon.
 A few weeks ago, I spoke at Gettysburg about the need to unite our nation, and today I’m here at Warm Springs because I want to talk about how we’re going to heal our nation. Over these past few months, there’s been so much pain, and so much suffering, and so much loss in America. Over 225,000 people have lost their lives to a virus. Many of those lives lost the cruelest way possible: alone. Alone in a hospital room, alone in a nursing home, no family, no friends, no loved ones beside them in those final moments, and it haunts so many of the surviving families, families who were never given a chance to say goodbye. I, and many of you know, what loss feels like when you lose someone you love, you feel that deep black hole opening up on your chest and you feel like you’re being swallowed into it.
 The tragic truth of our time is that COVID has left a deep and lasting wound in this country. Millions of Americans have lost their jobs and we see the empty storefronts and the shuttered businesses, the visible signs of lost hopes and broken dreams. But what we don’t see is all those parents staring at the ceiling late at night wondering, how am I going to pay the mortgage? How am I going to pay for our rent? What are they going to do if one of my kids get sick, now that I’ve lost my health insurance. Growing up, like many of you, I watched my father struggle to find work. He made what I call the longest walk any parent can make, up a short flight of stairs to his children’s bedroom to tell a child you can’t play in that little league team anymore, you can’t go back to the same school.
 We can’t stay here, Joey. We can’t stay in Scranton anymore. We have to move. There are good jobs in Delaware. When I get one, I’ll come back for you, your sister, your brother, and your mom. It’s only 157 miles away, Joey. My father came home every weekend for that year or more, but he always said, when we finally got settled in Delaware, he used to say, “Joey, a job’s”, and all my friends would hear it as well, “A job’s about a lot more than a paycheck.” My sister heard it as well, Valerie. He said, “It’s about your dignity, a job. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community.” And right now, on this autumn afternoon, millions of Americans all across this country feel they’ve lost all that.
 A season of protest has broken out all across the nation. Some of it is just senseless burning and looting and violence that can’t be tolerated and won’t, but much of it is a cry for justice from a community that’s long had a knee of injustice on their neck. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake. They’ll not soon be forgotten, not by me, not by us, and not by this country. They’re going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. These are historic, painful crises. The insidious virus, the economic anguish, the systematic discrimination, and one of them could have rocked the nation, any one of them. Yet, we’ve been hit by all three at once. But if we’re honest with ourselves, the pain striking at the heart of our country goes back not months but years. Our politics for too long hae been mean and bitter and divisive, you can hear it now in the distance. We’ve stopped seeing dignity in one another. We’ve stopped showing each other respect.
 Too many among us spend more time shouting than listening, more time fighting than working together, more time demonizing and denigrating others than lifting them up. The divisions in our nation are getting wider. Angry people are upset, anger and suspicion are growing, and our wounds are getting deeper. It may, and many wonder, has it gone too far? Have we passed the point of no return? Has the heart of this nation turned to stone? I don’t think so. I refuse to believe it. I know this country, I know our people, and I know we can unite and heal this nation. Warm Springs is a good place to talk about hope and healing. So Franklin Roosevelt came, “To use the therapeutic waters to rebuild himself.” Stricken by polio, the polio virus in 1921, he suffered from paralysis. Like many other Americans in those pre-vaccine decades, FDR longed to live an independent life, a life that wasn’t defined by his illness. To him, and to so many others facing physical challenges, Warm Springs offered therapy for the body, and I might add, and the soul, but it offered something else as well.
 FDR came looking for a cure, but it was the lessons he learned here that he used to lift a nation. Humility, empathy, courage, optimism. This place represented a way forward. A way of restoration, of resilience, of healing. In the years that followed, FDR would come back to Warm Springs often to think about how to heal the nation and the world, and that’s exactly what he did. Lifting us out of a great depression, defeating tyranny, saving democracy. Then it was here on April 12th, 1945, that President Roosevelt died. A casualty of war as surely as any who fell in combat, and the free world mourned. American leaders wept. Maybe even more important was the reaction of the American people. Naval Chief Petty Officer Graham Jackson, a black man, cried as he played his accordion in tribute to FDR, not far from here.
 And the story is told that when Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s procession went by, a man collapsed in grief. The neighbor asked him, “Did you know the president?” The response was “No,” the man said, “but he knew me.” He knew me. Few words better describe the kind of president our nation needs right now. A President who is not in it for himself, but for others. A President who doesn’t divide us, but unites us. A President who appeals not to the worst in us, but to the best. A President who cares less about his TV ratings and more about the American people. A President who looks not to settle scores, but to find solutions. A President guided not by wishful thinking, but by science, reason, and fact. That’s the kind of President I hope to be.
 I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American President. I’ll work with Democrats and Republicans. I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as for those who do. That’s the job of a President, a duty of care for everyone. This place, Warm Springs, is a reminder that though broken, each of us can be healed. That as a people and a country, we can overcome this devastating virus. That we can heal a suffering world. And yes, we can restore our soul and save our country.
 In his last hours, President Roosevelt was at work on a speech to be delivered the next day. In it he was to say, “Today, we must cultivate the science of human relationships, the ability of all people, of all kinds, to live together and work together in the same world at peace.” To live together and work together. That’s how I see America. That’s how I see the presidency. And that’s how I see the future. I tell you this from my heart. I believe America and American hope, not fear. Unity, not division. Love, not hate. The presidency though, is only one part of the American chorus. History isn’t only a story of the great and the famous. No, our history is a story of we, the people, of all of us together.
 I’ve long said the story of America is a story of ordinary people doing extraordinary things. Change in our country comes when the voices of the powerless reach the ears of the powerful. When those whose names we’ll never know, but will risk their lives to, in the words of Dr. King, “Bend the arc of the moral universe towards justice.” Bending that arc is the work of our time, but it’ll take all of us. Red states, blue states, Republicans, Democrats, Conservatives, and Liberals. And I believe from the bottom of my heart, we can do it.
 People ask me, why are you so confident Joe? Because we are the United States of America. There’s nothing, nothing the American people can’t do and been unable to do if we put our minds to it. When news of Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s death went out on the wires, an editor in Chicago, turned to his colleague and said “Clear the decks for action.” So I say to you today, if you’re giving me the honor of serving as your President, clear the decks for action.
 For we will act, we will act on the first day of my presidency to get COVID under control. We’ll act to pass my economic plan that will finally reward work, not wealth in this country. We’ll act to pass my health care plan to provide affordable, accessible healthcare for every American, and drug prices that are dramatically lowered. We’ll act to pass the Biden climate plan, meeting the challenges of a climate crisis while creating millions of good paying, high paying, labor jobs. We’ll act to address systemic racism in our country, and we’ll act to give working people a fair shot again in this country. And we’ll act to restore our faith in democracy and our faith in one another.
 Today, we’re facing a public health crisis of historic proportions. And with winter at hand, it’s getting worse. Just last Friday, 83,000 new cases in one day. Saturday, another 83,000 cases. Nearly 1000 people a day are dying. Another 200,000 deaths are expected over the next several months, and the President keeps telling us not to worry. He keeps telling us we’re turning the corner is his quote. He’s as removed from reality, and as offensive as when they told us the virus affects virtually nobody, just the elderly with heart conditions. Virtually nobody, just the elderly with heart conditions, as if they don’t matter.
 And when he said in response to the number of deaths reaching a thousand, he said, “It is what it is.” Well, it is what it is because he is who he is. In the spring, the President declared, in his voice as Commander-in-Chief, says Commander-in Chief. He was going to wage war on the virus. Instead he shrugged, he swaggered, and he surrendered. Then his Chief of Staff just last week made a stunning admission, an admission that I believe, but never thought he’d say. Saying, “We’re not going to control the pandemic.” End of quote. We’re not going to control the pandemic. It’s a capitulation. It’s a waving of a white flag. It’s a window into the shocking truth about this White House that they’ve never really tried.
 Think about all the frontline health professionals who’ve risked and some given their lives for the last nine months in this pandemic. Think about all the first responders. Think about all the grocery store clerks, the drivers, the delivery drivers of the trucks, teachers, parents, the kids home from school. Think about all those who have lost their jobs. Think about all those have been infected by the virus. Think about all those who have died. They were giving their all while their President was giving up. Well, I’m here to tell you: we can, and we will control this virus. As President, I will never wave the white flag of surrender. Just imagine where we’d be today if the President had embraced wearing masks instead of mocking it. Imagine where we’d be today if the president had practiced social distancing, instead of holding super spreader events. Imagine where we’d be with a comprehensive system of testing and tracing.
 I first put forward a detailed plan on how to deal with this virus back in March, this administration ignored it. Then I released several more detailed plans in the months that followed, the most recent just last week. This administration has yet to offer a single plan. Yes, one of the reasons why the most one of the most prestigious medical journals in the world, the New England Journal of Medicine, called the President “Dangerously incompetent.” Went on to say, “The President turned a crisis into a tragedy.”
 I’m ready to act. I know what to do. Starting on day one of my presidency, we will do it. I’ve talked about the battle for the soul of America since the very beginning of this campaign, and I want to be very clear in these closing days about what I mean, and about what I intend to do in that battle. To assure that our better angels prevail over our worst instincts. I believe this election is about who we are as a nation, what we believe, and maybe most importantly, who we want to be. It’s about our essence. It’s about what makes us Americans. It’s that fundamental. Time and again, throughout our history, we’ve seen charlatans, the con men, the phony populist, who sought the play on our fears, appeal to our worst appetites, and pick at the oldest scabs we have for their own political gain.
 They appear when the nation’s been hit the hardest and we’re at our most vulnerable, never to solve anything, but only the benefit themselves. In a recent encyclical, Pope Francis warns us against this phony populism, that appeals to “The basest and most selfish instincts.” He goes on to say, “Politics is something more noble than posturing, marketing, and media spin. These sow nothing but division, conflict, and a bleak cynicism.” He said, “For those who seek to lead, we do well to ask ourselves, why am I doing this? Why? What is my real aim?” Pope Francis asked questions that anyone who seeks to lead this great nation should be able to answer. And my answer is this: I run to unite this nation and to heal this nation. I’ve said that from the beginning. It is badly necessary.
 The Bible tells us there’s a time to break down, and a time to build up, a time to heal. This is that time. God and history have called us to this moment, and to this mission. With our voices and our votes, we must free ourselves from the forces of darkness, from the forces of division, and the forces of yesterday, and the forces that pull us apart, hold us down, and hold us back. And if we do so, we’ll once more become one nation under God, indivisible, a nation united, a nation strengthened, a nation healed. That is my goal. That is why I’m running. That is what we must do.
 Thank you all for being here, and may God bless America, and may God protect our troops. Stay safe and wear your mask.
 I tell you what. Thanks for sharing your story and it’s what this country’s all about. You’re making your family proud, man. And I wanted to talk, I want to thank the speakers ahead of me. Commissioner, soon to be commissioner Jessica Holmes, where are you Jessica? I know you’re here somewhere. And also state Representative Yvonne Holly, Lewis-Holley. She’s here. Zach Hawkins. Folks, and a great coach, Coach Lawson.
 I tell you what. My granddaughter’s with me today. And she went to a school that Coach Lawson went to for a little while in Washington. And apparently Coach telling me she’s recruiting some of the girl’s basketball team from where my granddaughter went to school. And she showed me Coach, she showed me a video you were doing for your team, where you made the distinction between competing and winning, the heart of winning and competing. And you talked about, though, working hard and competing. And everybody you pointed out works hard. But you said working hard is absolutely essential, but competing is even more consequential. You can work hard, but did you compete with everything you had? Competing because you know what’s at stake, what is at the heart of winning.
 My good friends, Congressman, excuse me, G.K. Butterfield and David Price, who represent the first and fourth districts with decency and honor, they can tell you we’re doing both, working hard and we’re competing like we never did before because so much is at stake for this nation. The very soul of the nation is at stake. Folks, as my coaches used to say in college, it’s go time. It’s the most important election in our lifetimes. We’re going to make all the difference here in North Carolina. The choice is clear as it’s ever been. And the stakes have never been higher. The stakes of this election, remind me of something my dad used to say when he lost job up in Scranton, Pennsylvania when I was a kid, when coal died and he moved down to Delaware. He used to always say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.-
 “It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community.” Then he said, it’s the God’s truth, if I heard it once I heard it 20 times. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay.” That’s a lesson I’ve never forgotten. When I grew up surrounded by a lot of hard work and folks in Scranton, Pennsylvania and Claymont, Delaware were we moved. How many people today though, think they can look their kid in the eye right now and say, “It’s going to be okay,” and mean it. So many people are hurting. Over half the people in America say if they got a bill for $400 they didn’t expect in one month, they wouldn’t be able to pay it. They’d have to borrow the money or they’d have to sell something.
 Folks, times are hard, unemployment’s way up. Just this week, 1,200,000 people filed for unemployment. Folks are worried about making their next mortgage payment or rent payment. Whether their healthcare will be ripped away in the middle of a pandemic. Worried about sending their kids to school, worried about not sending their kids to school. They see folks at the top, they’re doing better than ever while they’re left to wonder, “Who’s looking out for me.”
 Well, that’s Donald Trump’s presidency. More than 217,000 Americans dead because of COVID-19. Nearly 4,000 here in the state of North Carolina. On Friday, we saw the highest number of new cases in one day since July. In the last two days, worst day since July. Yet, the other night Trump said in one of his rallies, “We’ve turned the corner.” And my grandfather would say, “This guy’s gone around the bend if he thinks we turned the corner,”
 Turn the corner? Things are getting worse. He continues to lie to us about the circumstances. Experts say we’re likely to lose as many as 200,000 additional lives nationwide between now and the end of the year. All because this President cares more about his Park Avenue perspective on the world, the stock market, than he does about you. Because he refuses to follow the science. It’s estimated that if we just wore masks, if we just wore masks, we’d save between now and the end of the year, a hundred thousand lives. His own head of the CDC said that. And you know what? What’s really sad about this? The President knew how dangerous this virus was all the way back in January.
 And he hid it from the country. He’s on record. He told Bob Woodward in a taped interview that the disease was deadly, much worse than the flu. And here’s what he did. According to the New York Times three, four days ago, his Administration gave Wall Street investors, a head’s up, but he didn’t tell us, just his friends on Wall Street. That’s why they made so much money by “selling short.” Well who got sold short, y’all got sell short. And you know what’s coming.
 But what happened to the rest of us? He tried to claim with Woodward, he didn’t want to panic the American people. The American people do not panic, Trump panicked.
 And his selfish behavior is no surprise. After all, this is the same man who looks at Americans who put their lives on the line for this nation, like so many tens of thousands here in North Carolina have done. Like my son Beau did after a year in Iraq, winning the Bronze Star, conspicuous service medal, he looks at them, he calls them suckers and losers. Who the hell does he think he’s talking about? These are our heroes. They are the people who have sacrificed. They’re the backbone of this country.
 And now as a consequence of all this overwhelming lying, negligent, and irresponsible action has come, how many chairs were empty at the dining room table last night because of his negligence? Folks, we’re so much better than this. Despite the crisis we face, we have enormous opportunity if we just build. We can build back better. We just got to stand up and take it back. Look, we can build an economy that gets everyone a fair return on their work, an equal chance to get ahead. For example, the communities of color here in North Carolina and across the country. The question is, how do we break that cycle where in good times you lag behind. In bad times, you get hit the hardest and first. And in recovery, the last to bounce back. Well, the answer is about justice, criminal justice, police reform. I know this nation is strong enough to do both, honestly face systemic racism and provide safe streets for our families and small businesses, that too often bear the brunt of looting and burning.
 We have no need for our armed militias roaming America’s streets. This is the United States of America. And we should have no tolerance for extremist white supremacist group marching, menacing our communities. But what, but if you say we have no need face racial injustice in this country, as he says, you haven’t opened your eyes to the truth. There’ve been powerful voices for justice in recent months. George Floyd’s six year old daughter, who I met with in the family. I knelt down to say hi to her. And she looked at me, she said, “Mr. Vice President, daddy changed the world. Daddy changed the world.” Jacob Blake’s mother, with whom I met, said violence didn’t her son and this nation needs healing. And then said she prayed for the police officers.
 Doc Rivers, a basketball coach, choking back tears when he said, “We’re the ones getting killed. We’re the ones getting shot. We’ve been hung. It’s amazing why we keep loving this country and this country doesn’t love us back.” Think about that. Think about what it takes to be a Black person to love this country today as it does, its deep love for this country. And for much too long it hadn’t been recognized.
 We need leadership to deescalate tensions, open lines of communication and brings us together. To heal and to hope. As president that’s precisely what I’ll do. But true justice is also about jobs, good paying jobs, financial stability. It was right here in Durham, on Parrish Street a century ago that an oasis of black owned businesses thrived, even in the era of Jim Crow. Parrish Street was one of the first examples of flourishing black middle-class community in America. A place that offered the country a glimpse of what we could become if we chose to live up to our founding values. Giving families of color a real shot at a home, start a small business, send a child to college debt free so they can build wealth and pass opportunity down through generations. That’s what built every other middle-class group in America. That’s how we deliver equality and equity.
 Another example, more and more women are dropping out of the workforce in this recession, whether in cities or in suburbs. I have a plan to deal with this pandemic. Responsibly testing, tracing, masking, not politicizing a race for a vaccine, planning for its safe and equitable distribution. Providing funding for PPE and other resources for schools to reopen safely. Easing the caregiving crisis so many families are experiencing, squeezed between raising your kids and caring for an aging, loved one. And protecting your health care. In the middle of this pandemic, why did Republicans have the time to hold a hearing on the Supreme Court instead of addressing this significant economic needs of local communities?
 I’ll tell you why. For real not hyperbole, I’ll tell you why. It’s about wiping Obamacare off the books. That’s what it’s about. Because their nominee has said in the past the law should be struck down. If they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose their protections for pre-existing conditions. Complications of COVID-19, over 7 million people infected will become the next preexisting condition, allowing insurers to jack up your premiums or deny your coverage altogether. And women will again be charged more for their health just because they are women. Folks, we can do so much better.
 I will build on the Affordable Care Act so you can keep your private insurance. You can choose a Medicare like option. We’re going to increase subsidies that lower your premiums and deductibles [inaudible 00:12:18] out of pocket spending. Look, your governor has been working hard to expand Medicaid, but it’s being blocked by Republican legislature. My plan will automatically enroll 357,000 uninsured North Carolinans in a public option for free, automatically.
 And it’s going to make a life-changing difference for so many families. But we can only do any of this if we come together as a country. We need to revive the spirit of bipartisanship in this country. A spirit of being able to work with one another. When I say that, and I said that from the moment I announced, I’m told that, “Well, maybe that’s you used to be able to do that, Joe. That was your reputation when you were in the Senate and Vice President. But things have changed. They don’t work that way anymore.” Well, I’m here to tell you they can and they will and they must if we’re going to get anything done in America.
 Folks-
 I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president. No red states, no blue States, just the United States. I promise you. I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who did. That’s the job of a president, a duty to care, to care for everyone in America. Folks, and you too have a sacred duty. To vote. And it matters. North Carolina matters. And Senator Harris and I are asking you for your trust and support. We’ll always have your back, I promise you.
 So please, please vote and help get out the vote. Go to iwillvote.com/nc. Early voting started on Thursday. We got to keep the incredible momentum going. We can’t let up. You can vote early in person until the 31st. But don’t wait, go vote today and don’t just vote for me and Senator Harris. You’ve got a governor’s race, a Senate race, a record number of black women on the ballot. Congress and lieutenant governor. Labor commissioner and the courts. Folks, they’re ready to deliver for North Carolina families. So vote, vote. It’s time. It really is time.
 When I announced my candidacy, I hadn’t planned on running again to be very blunt. And I’ve said it before. My son had just died and I had no interest. And then I saw those folks coming out of the fields in Charlottesville, carrying torches. Close your eyes, remember what it looked like. They’re veins bulging, shouting anti-Semitic bile. The same bile that was shouted in the streets of Germany in the thirties. Carrying Nazi flags, accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan. And a young woman was killed that was protesting the opposite direction. And when asked to comment, this President said something no other president has ever said in the history of the United States of America. He said, “There were very fine people on both sides. Very fine people.”
 Folks, I mean it when I say this it’s time to restore America’s soul. It’s time to rebuild the backbone of America, the middle class. And this time, bring everybody along. No matter your race, your age, your religion, your gender, ethnicity, or disability. We can do this. The blinders have been taken off the American people and they’ve seen what’s happened. It’s time to unite America. Look, I’ll never forget what President Kennedy said when I was a kid and we’re going to the moon. Every kid in the school had to hear his speech. He used the line in that speech my Senate colleagues and the White House heard me use all the time, it made the most impression on me. He asked the unasked question, “Why are we doing this?” And his response was, he said, “Because we refuse to postpone.”
 This is America. We refuse to postpone America’s work that must be done.
 There’s nothing beyond our capacity. We have never, never, never, never failed. There’s no limit on our future. The only thing that can tear America part is America itself. Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. So let’s let them know who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. Science over fiction. And yes, we choose truth over lies. So folks, it’s time to stand up. Stand up and take back our democracy. No more time left. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 How y’all doing? My name’s Joe Biden. I’m a car guy and I got a ’67 Corvette that’s Goodwood green. That’s a 60… That’s not a 67. That’s a 427. That thing gets up and goes. Anyway. Choir, you must be freezing. Freezing to death. Well, I tell you what, man, you ought to huddle on the bus or something. Folks, I can’t tell you how much I appreciate you being here. What time is it now? Seven o’clock at night, cold as the devil and your here. And I thank you very, very much. Detroit, there’s no better, no more appropriate place to hold a drive-in rally than in motor city USA.
 I want to thank Everett. I want to thank Everett for sharing his story with us and for the unfailing dedication that you and so many of your proud union educators, we owe you. We owe you big for those students and families you take care of during these difficult times. I’m married. I’m Jill Biden’s husband. She’s an educator. So, that’s what teaching is. It’s just not she does. It’s who she is. So Everett, thank you. And folks, look. I also want to thank the incredible leaders who are here today. My good friend, Mayor Duggan and mayor Duggan and I spent an awful lot of time together trying to get Detroit back. He got it back on the upside, but I was here trying to get to all the help he could possibly get to get it done. As Vice President I’m fighting to support this city, invest in the revitalization of the future of Detroit, because I’ve always believed in Detroit, not just saying that. My dad was an automobile man.
 That’s what got me through school. That’s what everything was about. And I’ve always believed in Michigan. We have the finest auto workers in the world here in Michigan. That’s not hyperbole. That’s a fact. I want to thank you, Chairwoman Barnes. Thank you very, very much. And Lieutenant Governor Gilchrist, you’ve been a good friend. And Governor Whitmer, you’ve been an incredible leader. She’s been tested and proven under crisis conditions and extraordinary circumstances.
 Your leadership through this pandemic has saved countless lives of Michiganders here, Gov. That’s a fact. And you’ve shown the whole nation just how tough you are. Michigan tough. I’m proud to call you a friend. And Senator Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, thank you for fighting for the people of Michigan who need help now, but aren’t getting it because the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, cares more about shoving through our Supreme Court nomination to take away your health care than he does helping the hurting people in this city, this state in this country. We can’t forget that winning in November doesn’t just mean defeating Donald Trump. It means winning back the United States Senate and expanding our majority in the House of Representatives. That’s why we need to send Gary back to Washington, DC.
 I really mean it. We need him. That’s the guy who knows what he believes and says what he believes and does what he believes. And alongside Debbie Stabenow for the people in Michigan, but not quite frankly for the whole country. Folks, as my coaches to say, it’s go time. This is the most important election of our lifetimes. And you can make all the different here in Michigan. The choice is as clear as ever, and the stakes are higher than ever. The stakes in this election remind me of something my dad used to say. He said, “Joey, a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in your communities. Be able to look your child in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay,’ and mean it.” Well, that’s a lesson I’ve never forgotten.
 That’s what I grew up surrounded by, hard work and families. In Scranton, Pennsylvania. Claymont, Delaware. How many people today though, can look their kids in the eye and say, “Everything’s going to be all right,” and mean it? These times are hard. Unemployment is way up due to the pandemic. Just this week, over a million, 200,000 more people file for unemployment. The economic outlook for next year remains uncertain and across Michigan and the country, folks are worried about making their next rent payment or their mortgage payment or their car payment. They’re worried whether or not they can purchase the prescription drug they need or put food on the table, have to make a choice. Worried about sending their kids to school or worried about not sending their kids to school. They see the people at the top doing a hell of a lot better while the rest are left to wonder, “Who’s looking out for me?” That’s Donald Trump’s presidency.
 More than 215… I think it’s now 217,000, dead Americans because of COVID-19. And experts say we’ll lose nearly 200,000 more lives in the next few months, all because this President cares more about his Park Avenue perspective on the world and the stock market than he does about you. Because we refuse to follow the science. It’s estimated if we just wore these masks between now and the end of the year, we’d save 100,000 lives. Folks, you know what’s really sad about all this? The President knew. He knew back in January how dangerous this virus was.
 And he hid it from the American people. He told the journalist Bob Woodward in a taped interview the disease was deadly. In January. Deadly and far worse than the flu and airborne. But here’s what he did. According to the New York Times today, his administration gave Wall Street investors a heads up about it. Didn’t tell us, but gave Wall Street Investors a head up, but the American people, he said nothing. That’s why they made so much money by quote, “Selling short.” They knew what was coming. But what happened to the rest of us? He told Bob Woodward he didn’t want to panic the American people. We don’t panic. He panicked.
 This personal conduct since his diagnosis has been unconscionable. The longer Donald Trump is President, the more reckless he gets. Dr. Fauci, the leading expert in the country, referred to the President’s announcement on the Supreme Court in the Rose Garden, as quote, “A super spreader event causing so many people to get COVID.” And how did Trump respond? He responded by running a national ad, taking Dr. Fauci’s words out of context.
 Dr. Fauci said way back in March a quote, “I can’t imagine that anybody could be doing more.” Referring to the public health officials. Then Trump took that quote out of context and put it into a campaign ad deliberately lying, making a sound like Dr. Fauci was talking about him. Even after Fauci asked him to take the ad down, trump’s campaign said they’d continue to use the ad, knowing it was a lie. That behavior is no surprise. After all, this is the same man who looks at Americans who put their lives on the line, like my son put the lives on the line to save our nation, calls them losers and suckers. My son Beau spent a year in Iraq, won the bronze star of the conspicuous service medal. He was no sucker.
 And the people he left behind were heroes. And now, as a consequence of this overwhelming lying, misleading irresponsible action on the part of Donald Trump, how many empty chairs are there going to be around the dining room table tonight because of his negligence? Folks, we’re so much better than this as a country. Despite the crisis we face, we have an enormous opportunity to build back better. The American people have had the blinders off to replace Donald Trump’s incentives for companies to ship jobs overseas, with rental policies and tax credits, to revitalize American manufacturing, to make it in America, make it in Michigan, buy American.
 Look. We’re going to do everything to give everyone a fair return on their work, an equal chance to get ahead. For example, in communities of color here in Detroit and all across the country, the question is, “How do we break the cycle?” Where in good times, you lag behind. In bad times, you’re the first hit and hit the hardest. And in recovery, you’re the last ones the bounce back. The answer is about justice. Criminal justice, policing reform. This nation is strong enough to both honestly face systemic racism and strong enough to ride safe streets for our families and small businesses that too often bear the brunt of looting and burning. We have no need for armed militias roaming America’s streets, and we should have no tolerance for extremist white supremacist group, menacing our country. These guys are hatching violent and deranged schemes, like the one against Governor Whitmer that the FBI and local law enforcement uncovered and stopped last week. But make no mistake, that was a planned act of terrorism.
 A plot. Think of this. A plot in the United States of America to blow up a bridge on American soil, to threaten the lives of police officers, to kidnap an American leader. That’s the sort of behavior you might expect from ISIS that should shock the conscience of every American to see that sort of twisted thinking take root here in America. What all President does, Trump does, is fan the flames of hatred and division in this country. Telling the proud boys in the debate with me. When I said, “Will you condemn them? He said, “I’ll tell them to stand back and stand by.” What the hell’s the matter with this guy? Attacking Governor Whitmer on the same day this plot was exposed. It’s despicable. And by the same measure, if you say we have no need to face racial injustice in this country, you haven’t opened your eyes to the truth of America today.
 There’ve been powerful voices for justice in recent weeks and months. George Floyd’s six year old daughter, who I met with when I met the family. Jean. I knelt down to say hi to her, and looked at me and said, “Daddy, change the world.” Jacob Blake’s mother, another one, when I met with her, said violence doesn’t reflect who her son is and the nation needs healing and said she’s praying for the police officers. Or [Doc Rivers 00:12:02], the basketball coach, choking back tears when he said, quote, “We’re the ones getting killed. We’re the ones getting shot. We’d been hung. It’s amazing why we keep loving this country and this country doesn’t love us back.”
 Think about that. Think about what it takes to be a black person who loves America today. That is a deep love of this country that has far too long, has not been fully recognized. What we need in America us leadership to seek to deescalate tensions, to open the lines of communications, to bring us back together again, to heal, to hope. As President that’s precisely what I’ll do, but true justice is also about jobs, good paying jobs, financial stability, families of color building wealth, passing it down.
 That’s how I deliver equality and equity. Another example, more and more women are dropping out of the workplace because of the recession or in a city or out in the suburbs. I have a plan to deal with the pandemic responsibly. New testing, tracing, masking, not politicizing the race for vaccine. Planning for safe and equitable distribution, providing PPE and other resources for schools to reopen safely. Ease the caregiving crisis that so many families are experiencing. Squeezed between raising your kid and caring for your aging loved ones. And protect your health care. In the middle of this pandemic why didn’t Republicans have the time, as I said, to hold a hearing on the Supreme Court, instead of addressing the significant economic needs of local communities? I’ll tell you why. It’s about wiping out Obamacare. Wiping it off the books, because their nominee has said in the past that the law should be struck down.
 He’s going to take away healthcare coverage for 20 million Americans. They’ll also take away protections for preexisting conditions that more than a hundred million people in America have. Complications of COVID-19 will also add to that. Lung scarring, heart damage could well become the next pre-existing condition. That will toss out the rule that allows children to be covered on their parents’ health insurance till age 26. Will take us backwards to when insurance companies could charge a woman more for healthcare than a man, just because she’s a woman. Folks, we can do so much better together. I’ll build on the Affordable Care act, where you can choose to keep your private insurance as well as offer Medicaid like public option, which will give private insurance real competition. We’re going to increase subsidies so your premiums are lower. You can afford a plan with lower deductibles, lower out-of-pocket spending.
 Folks, we can only do this if we come together as a country. Abraham Lincoln told us that a house divided cannot stand. Today, trust is ebbing. Hope seems elusive. And instead of healing, we’re being ripped apart. I refuse to let that happen. We need to revive a spirit of bipartisan in this country. A spirit of being able to work with another. When I say that I’m told that used to be the way, Joe, used to get a lot of things done, but things have changed. Well, I’m here to tell you it can happen again. And they must. It must if we’re ever going to get anything done. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American President.
 I work with Democrats and Republicans. That’s why so many Republican leaders have endorsed me. They know I’ve done it and we’ll do it again. For those who don’t support me as well as those who do, folks that’s the job of a President, the duty to care, the duty to heal. And you, too, have a sacred duty. As my friend, John Lewis used to say, “Vote. It matters.” Michigan matters. You elected me and Barack Obama in 2012. And you bet on us when we bet on you and bet on American workers. We bet on the UAW. I’m asking for your trust and support in 2020 for Kamala and me. We’ll always have your back. I promise you. So please, vote. Help us get out the vote. Go to iwillvote.com/mi and Detroit, more than 20 years. Look, you have now 20 early voting centers. They’re open now all across the city.
 Open seven days a week and election day. It’s a one-stop shop. You can go get registered and vote right then and there. So don’t wait. Vote today. Tell everyone you know. Everyone you meet, vote. Vote. Vote. And no matter what, don’t let anybody discourage you or tell you your vote won’t count because it does.
 You, the American people are going to decide the future of this country. Vote. It’s time to restore America’s soul. It’s time to rebuild the backbone of this country. The middle class and unions built the middle class. No matter what your age, race, or gender. Folks, folks, look. It’s time to unite America. It really is.
 I’ll never forget what President Kennedy said about going to the moon. My colleagues in the Senate used to kid me by raising it when I’d bring it up in a caucus. He answered the question that was on everybody’s lips but nobody asked. “Why are we doing this?” He said, “We’re doing it because we refuse to postpone.” I refuse to postpone any longer the work America must do. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. There’s no limit to America’s future. The only thing that can tear America part is America itself. Look, everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s show them who we are. We choose hope over fear, unity over division, science over fiction. And yes, truth over lies. It’s time to stand up, take back our country. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Go get him. We can do this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 It’s good to be back. Thank you. Thank you. It’s good to be back, Mr. Mayor, in this former terminal museum. I tell you what, this is a magnificent facade, isn’t it? I understand that a few marriage proposals were made by standing in that corner and whispering to someone in the other corner.
 Mr. Mayor, thank you for the passport into the city. Thank you for your friendship. I was looking around for it. I couldn’t see you in the light. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And thank you for… The Mayor is very good friends with a fellow who, one of the brightest, most decent men I know, who occupies my seat in the United States Senate, Senator Chris Coons. They were Truman scholars together. And you guys seem like you’re cut from the same cloth. Thank you very, very much for your support. I appreciate it, Mr. Mayor
 And Kate, you’re something else. Now, Kate, you know, there’s an old joke. A long time ago, particular senator said to me, this is back when I was much younger, I was in my second term, running for my second term. He said, “Joe, I’ll come to Delaware for you and campaign for you or against you, whichever will help the most.” My offer still holds. I hope my endorsement didn’t hurt you. But all kidding aside, Kate, we need you in the US Congress. And I really mean it. And the reason I say that is you’re a healthcare advocate, a cancer survivor, a mom, and we need leaders like you representing the people in the First District. People who understand what’s going on every day, the discussions that take place around the kitchen table in the morning. Our families are still struggling trying to figure out what to do. And Joyce, thank you for that introduction. Before I begin, let me say that I’m saddened to hear that one of my baseball heroes, Joe Morgan, second baseman, Red’s legend, Hall of Famer and a good man passed away. And my condolences to the Morgan family and his teammates and to his fans here in Cincinnati and all across the country. He played one year on the Philadelphia Phillies.
 Now, I’m going to get myself in real trouble, but I have a bad habit of telling you the truth. I happened to grow up in a household in Scranton, Pennsylvania, where, if you wanted to have dinner, you had to be Yankees fan because that was the farm called, the Triple A ball club was a Yankee ball club. And my grandpop was an All-American football player, but he was a great Yankees fan. But it wasn’t hard back in those days. There was Whitey Ford and a few others, but in Delaware, if you are not a Phillies fan, and let me put this way, if I were not a Phillies fan, I’d be sleeping alone. My wife’s a Philly girl. You think I’m kidding. I’m not.
 But Joe actually played for a year in the Phillies if my memory serves me correctly, but he had fans all over the country. It’s amazing to be both the heart when he was a second baseman, and the voice as one of the great baseball announcers in history, of the same club. I mean, that’s a pretty incredible accomplishment. And so, my best to his family and to his fans, and he has fans all across the country.
 Folks, as my football coach says, “Go time, Joe.” It’s go time. This is the most important election of our lifetimes, not because I’m running, because what’s at stake. The next president is going to determine not just the next four years, but what the next decade or more is going to look like because there’s such a stark fundamental difference. And you here in Cincinnati can make all the difference and all the difference in Ohio.
 I learned a long time ago coming out to Ohio that you win Ohio from Cincinnati north. Head north. Well, you are the starting gate, and I love being back here. And again, what a beautiful museum and terminal this is. I spent a lot of time, as I was telling the Mayor, in train stations.
 When I first got elected to the United States Senate, I was 29. I was in Washington and interviewing my first staff using Senator Kennedy’s whip office. And I got a phone call from a first responder saying my wife and daughter had just been killed, and my two boys were really badly injured, and not sure they were going to make it. My fire department, and God, I love my fire service, took about three hours and the jaws of life to get my kids out of the car because they were broadsided by a tractor trailer. And I didn’t want any part of going to the United States Senate. My sister managed my campaign, and my younger sister and my much younger brother raised all the money we raised, $187,000. We went to our governor to determine who would they pick in my spot because I didn’t plan on going. A lot of really fine men who were in the Senate at the time, and Republicans and Democrats came to me and said, “Just come and stay for six months and help us organize.”
 And so I started commuting every day back and forth, and that’s how I got involved as sort of Mr. Amtrak. Because when they publish that, they keep fastidious records on how many miles you travel on government aircraft when your vice president. And I had traveled a little over, I think it was a 1,400,000 miles. It was on the front page of the paper, but I used to like to take the train home on Fridays still as Vice President because it costs a lot of money to take that small plane back. But in addition to that, the Secret Service felt much more secure if I wasn’t on a train, but they humored me and let me go home on Fridays sometimes. My mom was living at my home as she was passing.
 And I remember getting on the train and a guy named Angelo Negrea, I got to know their families, all the conductors and all the people all those years. And he came up to me and he grabbed me and he said, “Joey.” He grabbed my cheek. I was thought the Secret Service was going to shoot him. I said, “No.” I said, “He’s okay.” It’s a true story. And he said, “I just read, Joey, 1,400,000 miles on Air Force Two, big deal. The boys, we were checking. We had our retirement dinner. Went up to New Jersey for the dinner. You know how many miles you traveled on Amtrak?” I said, “No, Ang, I don’t.” He said, “Joey,” he said, “we figure 117 days a year, 36 years, and then X number of days as Vice President, you’ve traveled 2,100,000 miles on Amtrak.” I think I hold the record, other than a conductor.
 And so they gave me a key to the engine because I can… I’m the only one I know of. I’m not supposed to say that, but I got it hidden. My point is that, as a sidelight, one of the ways we’re going to revive this economy is we’re going to end up moving high speed rail and commuter rail across this country in a way that we haven’t done before.
 But the reason I went home was the same reason why all you do, or try to, and that is to be there in the evening when my kids went to bed. In the morning, my son, Beau, my son, Hunter, and my daughter, Ashley, get them back to school in the morning on the way to the station, and then when they got older, it wasn’t the case, but gets to kiss them goodnight. And as they kid, “I know, Dad, we got to say three Hail Marys and God bless our troops.” So for 36 years we did this, 250 miles roundtrip.
 And folks, you know, it’s really one way that I’ve said this before and I apologize for the press that travels with me for repeating it, but as I’d ride home-
 … that travels with me, from repeating it, but as I ride home at night, and usually I could get the seven o’clock, the last fast train. Now they call it the [cell oh 00:00:11] . It was then called the Metro, was at seven o’clock and I’d ride. You get outside the Beltway exit and you ride by all these neighbors. I look into windows and wonder, literally sitting there, looking out the window. What are those parents talking about at that dining room table tonight? What are they doing before, they put their kids to bed, right after they put the kids to bed and come back and sit down. My guess is they’re talking about the same things that we talked about all across the country, and we’re talking about today. They’re asking questions, and one of theirs, as profound as they’re ordinary. “Are we going to be okay? Are going to make it?”
 “What are we going to do? Who’s going to tell her we don’t have the money to go back to that community college. Who’s going to, you got to drive another 1000 miles on those bald tires. We just don’t have the money right now to get four new tires.” This election is about answering those kinds of questions. Who’s on their side? My dad used to have an expression for real. My dad, he didn’t have work when coal died and Scranton. My dad was a salesperson. He wasn’t a coal miner. My great-grandfather was a mining engineer, but my dad used to say, “Joey, a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay’, and mean it.”
 That’s a lesson I’ve never forgotten. It’s what I grew up with, surrounded by hard work and families and Scranton, Pennsylvania. When my dad had to move to Delaware, took us home to my grandpa for a year, but we finally got down. We got together again. That’s the discussions we had in Claymont and Scranton, like here in Cincinnati, but times are hard. Unemployment is up, due to the pandemic and economic outlook remains very uncertain and very mishandled. Across Ohio, and in this country folks are worried about making their next rent payment or mortgage payment, whether or not they’re going to be out in the street, whether or not they can purchase that prescription drug they need, or how much food they can put on the table.
 Making hard choices. Worry about whether the school their child is enrolled in, is going to be able to be open or what do they do if I still have a job, but I have a young child? If I go to work and their school’s not open, who takes care of them? How do we do that? They see the people at the top doing better and better, even in the midst of this God-awful recession, while they’re left to wonder. I mean, this sincerely, they’re have to wonder, “Who’s looking out for me?” That’s Donald Trump’s presence. 215,000 people dead from COVID-19. Experts are telling us, we may lose up to another 200,000 lives, by end of January, all because the president is only worried about one thing, the stock market, because he refused to follow science.
 It’s estimated that if we just wore masks, the mask I just took off to speak. Experts tell us, we could save between now and the end of the year, 100,000 lives. The president knew back in January. I think it was the 28th of January, when the intelligence community kept telling him how serious this pandemic would be. He knew it was extremely dangerous, an extremely communicable disease, airborne, but he didn’t tell anybody. But out of his desire to try to get Bob Woodward, to write something good about him, he did a long interview with Woodward, a famous journalist, and he went on record, on tape. He’s taped as saying, Trump is, that he knew how dangerous this disease was, but he did and said nothing except praise she, for the great service he was performing, how transparent he was.
 Ask yourself, why did he not tell the country? Or what, how much better off would it be, had he told the country. He said nothing. He told Bob Woodward, they didn’t want to panic the American public. Americans don’t panic. Trump panicked. Trump is the one who panicked, his reckless personal conduct since his diagnosis, as well, has been unconscionable. The longer Donald Trump is president, the more reckless he gets. Dr. Fauci, the most respected person in this area, in the country, referred to the president’s announcement event, for the Supreme Court in the Rose Garden as a super-spreader event, publicly criticizing him.
 How is the president of responding? He’s running a national ad here in Cincinnati and all across the country, quoting Dr. Fauci out of context. Dr. Fauci said, back in March, referring to public health officials, “I can’t imagine anybody could be doing more,” referring to public health officials. But Trump and his campaign were very much used to deception and not telling the truth. Deliberately lie by putting Fauci in his ad, implying that Fauci was talking about Trump, saying he doesn’t know how anybody could do any better. Fauci, after he saw the ad, he went public. You’ve probably seen it on the nightly news. He came after that and he said, “I did not get permission for that quote to be used, and it wasn’t about the president.” Even after he said that, and the point, I listened to your talk, even after he said that, look what happened.
 They continued to lie. They said, “We’re keeping it in the ad.” Same ad that says, I’m going to increase taxes on middle-class folks, with the same amount of credibility. Look, they use the ad knowing it’s a lie. Can you remember any other major, mainstream presidential candidate ever doing something like these things? As a consequence of months of overwhelming lying, misleading, irresponsible action on the part of Donald Trump, how many empty chairs are going to be around the dinner table tonight, because of their negligence? How many? How many brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, uncles, aunts, moms, dads are gone?
 Folks, we’re so much better than this. Despite the crisis we face, we have an enormous opportunity. Like America’s done, unlike any other country, after every crisis, we’ve always come out of the crisis stronger than we were before we went in. That’s the uniqueness of who we are. We now have an opportunity to build back and build back better, to get everyone a fair return on their work, an equal chance to get ahead, begin to reward work, not just wealth. For example, for communities of color here in Cincinnati and all across the country, the question is, “How do we break the cycle, wherein good times, they lag. In bad times, they get hit first and harder?”
 … where in good times they lag. In bad times, they get hit first and hardest. In a recovery, they’re the last and toughest to bounce back. The answer is justice, justice, criminal justice, police reforms. I know this nation is strong enough to both honestly face systemic racism and strong on it to provide safe streets for our families and small businesses that too often bear the brunt of looting and burning, which is never justified. We have no need though for armed militia roaming the streets. We should have no tolerance for extremist White supremacist groups menacing our communities.
 Even reading what’s happening up in Michigan. The Governor is a good friend. They were in her driveway with assault weapons, standing there, because you can open carry in their state, attempting to intimidate. Remember, in, I was going to call it a debate, but the shouting match he engaged in, when he was asked by a Fox reporter, not a left wing somebody or other, would he condemn White supremacy, he never answered the question. I said, “What about those guys that you in fact talk about all the time,” those boys he talks about? He said, “Well, I would just tell them to stand back and stand by.” Neighborhoods I worked in, in the Black community in Delaware, that’s called a dog whistle. You say we should trust the American law enforcement authorities to their job as I do then let them do their job without extremest groups acting as vigilantes.
 If you say we have no need to face racial injustice in this country you haven’t opened your eyes to what’s been going on in this country and has for a long time. I decided to run for President and I hadn’t planned on it for real, but I decided to run when I saw those folks marching out of the fields in Charlottesville. Close your eyes and you remember what you saw on television? These White supremacist, Nazi sympathizers, carrying Nazi flags using the exact same jargon used, anti-Semitic jargon used as it was used in Germany in the ’30s, accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan and the Grand Kleagle saying, “This is why we elected him,” and a young woman ends up being killed. And I asked the President, “What do you think?” He said something no President has ever said, mark it down, ever said, “There are very fine people on both sides.”
 There have been very powerful voices for justice in recent weeks and months. I’ve spent some time more, than one time, with George Floyd’s family and his little daughter, Gianna. And I knelt down to say hi to her and she said in a soft voice, “Daddy,” my word, this is a quote, “Daddy changed the world.” I also got to know Jacob Blake’s mom and dad and the whole family. Know what she said, she said, “Violence didn’t reflect her son,” that this nation needed healing, to stop the rioting, peacefully march, but there’s no justification for violence. One of the things that I’ve found, I’ve been in the civil rights arena for a long time and found pretty moving, was Doc Rivers, the basketball coach choking back tears. Remember what he said a couple of weeks ago? “We’re the ones getting killed. We’re the ones getting shot. We’ve been hung,” continuing the quote. “It’s amazing why we keep loving this country and this country doesn’t love us back.”
 Think about that. Think about what it takes for a Black person to love America. That is a deep love for this country that for far too long has never been fully recognized. Trump talks about the lack of systemic racism and this is the first administration we’ve never met, “We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men,” we’ve never met that standard. But every generation has moved closer and closer and closer to inclusion. It’s the first one, elected President, to deliberately try to turn it back in a big way. With all due respect, I think we need in America’s leadership that seeks to deescalate tensions, open the lines of communication, and bring us back together to heal and to hope. As President, that’s precisely what I will do. That’s a President’s job, but it just goes beyond the issue of police-community relations.
 It goes about being able to compete and build wealth. It’s about jobs, good paying jobs, financial stability, families of color building wealth, and being able to pass it down, like my Irish-Catholic folks were able to do in Scranton, coming up from nothing. You build home equity, you got something to pass on. For example, another example is more and more women are dropping out of the workforce in this recession whether they’re in a city or in the suburbs. I have a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly. Testing, tracing, masking, not politicizing the race for a vaccine, a plan for its safe and equitable distribution, providing funding for PPE, the protective equipment and other resources for schools and businesses to be able to reopen safely. If you notice, the president said, when he was asked about his responsibility, he said, “I take no responsibility.” That was a quote. ” I take no responsibility.”
 No national standard has been set by this administration. Mr. Mayor, you’re doing on your own, or with your Governor or others in the community. We have to do so much and we can do so much. Ease the caregiving crisis for so many families experiencing now. That squeeze between raising your kids while caring for an aged loved one. It’s real. Protect your healthcare in the middle of this pandemic. Why do so many Republicans today have time told a hearing on the Supreme Court with 22 days left to go instead of providing significant economic recovery and needs for the people who are hurting so badly, Democrats and Republicans? Think about that. I handled the Recovery Act for our administration. $800 billion in 18 months with less than two-tenths of 1% waste or fraud. We had an Inspector General who looked over everything I did and I met with once every two weeks. Got $145 billion out to state and localities so you didn’t have to lay off …
 … billion dollars out to state and locality. So you didn’t have to lay off cops, firefighters, school teachers, nurses, first responders. What are we doing? Zip. The house acted, in the beginning of the summer, the so-called Heroes Act, to pay for all of this. States are in trouble. I’ll tell you why they’re not doing anything about it; two reasons. One, it’s all about wiping out the Affordable Care Act, which has been an obsession for this president since he became president. It was an Obama idea. Because no other nominee has said in the past that the law should be struck down. Not as a judge, [inaudible 00:00:27:59], that’s her view. That’s going to take health care coverage away from 20 million Americans. Because of his mishandling the economy and COVID, we’ve already lost 10 million people, have already lost their employer based health insurance, 10 million. That’s going to take away pre-existing conditions coverage for a hundred plus million Americans. And complications of COVID- 19 like lung scarring as well as heart damage, could well put how many millions more? There’s over 7 million people contracted COVID in the United States. What happens then? Pre-existing conditions can not be covered. It’s going to toss out the rule that allows children to be covered on their parents’ health care until age 26. It’s going to take us backwards. When insurance companies could charge a woman more for the same exact treatment that they charge a man. And pregnancy, once again, becomes a pre-existing condition. Folks, we can do so much better than this. Together we can build on the Affordable Care Act, writing a new health insurance option, a nonprofit public option, which is giving private insurers, a real competitor. Increase the subsidies, so premiums are lower and you can afford plans with lower deductibles, and lower out-of-pocket costs. We can only do any of this, if the country comes together.
 Last week, I went to Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, to the battlefield where Abraham Lincoln told us that a house divided cannot stand. Today, trust is ebbing, hope seems elusive. Instead of trying to heal his policies are ripping us apart.
 And those Republicans are willing to cooperate, get punished by this president. I refuse to let that happen. We need to revive the spirit of bipartisanship in this country. I know that sounds bizarre in light of where we are. The spirit of being able to work with one another. When I say that, and I said that from the time I announced, I was told that, “Maybe that the way things used to work, Joe, you got a lot done before Joe, but you can’t do that anymore.” Well, I’m here to tell you and say we can, and we must, if we’re going to get anything done. Democracy requires consensus. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president.
 There will be no blue states and red states with me. It’s one America. I’ll work with Democrats and Republicans. I’ll work as hard for those who vote against me, as those who voted for me. That’s the job of a president, the duty to care, to care for everybody. We can disagree on policy, but you can still care. And you too have a sacred duty, in my humble opinion. As my friend, John Lewis said before he died, and while he was alive, “You have a sacred obligation to vote.” It matters. Ohio matters. You elected me and Barack in 2008 and 12.
 I’m asking for your support. I want to earn it, I’ll take nothing for granted. Asking for your support for Kamala and me in 2020. I promise we’ll always have your back. So please vote. Go to, I Will Vote.com/OH, now, to request your absentee ballot to vote by mail, to confirm your early voting location, to vote early in person, to find your polling place to vote in person on election day. Just make sure you have a plan.
 As a future congress woman said, “Bring along family, bring long friends, make their plans to vote as well.” No matter what, don’t let anybody discourage you and tell you your voice won’t be counted. It does. And don’t be intimidated by talk of having some of these Proud Boys stand there with their rifles in lines where you can open carry to try to intimidate people without saying anything. You, the American people decide our future; vote. And I’m convinced you’re going to turn out in large numbers.
 When I announced, I said I was running to restore America’s soul. Well its time to restore it. So it’s time to rebuild the backbone of this country, the middle class. This time, bring everybody along. No matter your race, your age, your gender, your religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability; everybody gets to come along. It’s time to unite America. And we’ll do that by choosing hope over fear, science over fiction, truth over lies, and unity over division. There’s nothing beyond the capacity of this nation when we stand together. So it’s time to stand up, take back our democracy, unite. And let’s, for the first time in a while, reflect the values that the vast majority of Americans hold. May God bless you. And may God bless our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, Florida. Hello, hello, hello, hello, Florida. Miramar. It’s great to be back with you. Thank you so much and thank you, Mr. Mayor for the passport into your city and I want to say thank you to all the speakers you heard earlier. The Mayor, Dale, thank you. County Commissioner, Barbara and Senator Oscar. Look, Senator, you’re looking like you’re still in shape. And I also want to thank Damian for sharing your story and for exercising your power as a young voter, a first time voter.
 Look, you’re an inspiration, man. I really mean that. You’re making your family proud. You’re a role model for an awful lot of young people all across Florida and across the country. Folks, as my old football coach used to say, “It’s go time.” It is go time. It is. No matter whether it’s your first vote or many, but beyond that, this is the most important election in our lifetimes and you can make all the difference here in Florida. You can determine the outcome of this election.
 We win Florida and it’s all over. Look, choice is clear and the stakes have never been higher. The stakes in this election remind me of something that my dad used to say. He said, “Joey, job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about your place in your community. It’s about you being able to look to your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, everything’s going to be okay,’ and mean it.”
 How many people can look their kids in the eye and say that today, “It’s going to be okay,” and mean it? That’s the lesson I’ve never forgotten. That’s why I grew up surrounded by hardworking folks in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Claymont, Delaware but folks-
 Folks, these times are hard. These times are hard. Unemployment is way up due to the pandemic. The economic outlook for the next year remains uncertain, and across Florida and the country, folks are worried about being able to pay their rent or their next mortgage payment, whether or not they can purchase the prescription or put food on the table, worried about school and their kids. They see the people at the top doing better and better during this crisis, and wondering, “Who’s looking out for me?”
 Folks, that’s Donald Trump’s presidency: 115,000 dead from COVID-19. And experts say, unless we change rapidly, and he has shown no indication he’s willing to change or do the proper thing, we could lose another 200,000 lives the next few months, all because this president is only worried about the stock market, didn’t want to scare anybody. He refused to follow science. It’s established, it’s estimated that if, in fact, we all wore masks between now and January, we could save 100,000 lives over the next few months.
 Folks, what bothers me the most about this guy, in his own words, the president knew back in January, when he was briefed in detail, after lying about it, saying he never read the intelligence community’s warnings about how dangerous this was, what did he do? He learned in January, the end of January, and in fact, that in fact this was a virulent virus, that it was passed on easily, that it was airborne. But he didn’t tell anybody. He went on and tape an interview with Bob Woodward, a journalist, trying to ingratiate himself to him, telling him he knew how dangerous the disease was back in January. But he did nothing, not a single thing. Didn’t say a word to anybody. Ask yourself, why didn’t he tell the country? He said nothing. When he told Woodward, when Woodward asked him why he didn’t say anything, he said, “I didn’t want to panic the American people.” The American people do not panic; Donald Trump panicked! We don’t scare!
 Americans have faced every problem that has ever confronted us, and his reckless personal conduct since the diagnosis has been unconscionable. The longer Donald Trump remains president, the more reckless he becomes. Three more weeks before we end this madness.
 Folks, the most respected doctor in the country on this issue is Dr. Fauci. He referred to the president’s announcement of the Supreme Court with a political event in the Rose Garden, or in the backyard of the White House, he called it a superspreading event. Look at all the people who became contagious and got ill. And how is he responding now? He, Trump, is running a national ad on television, you may have seen it, taking a quote of Dr. Fauci out of context. He said Dr. Fauci said way back in March, referring to the public health officials, he said, “I can’t imagine that anybody could be doing more,” referring to the public health officials across America. Yet, the Trump campaign deliberately lied, making it as sound as if Fauci was talking about Trump. Fauci went public after the ad came out, saying, “I did not give permission for that quote, and it wasn’t referring to the president.”
 Folks, here’s the real point about the lack of ethics: even after Fauci said he didn’t say that about Trump, the Trump campaign said they’ll continue to use the ad knowing it was a lie. Folks, I don’t recall any administration, any presidential candidate in either major party doing anything like that.
 That behavior’s no surprise, though. After all, this is the same man who looks at Americans who put their lives on the line for our nation and calls them losers and suckers. Folks, I carry with me a card, my schedule card, that lays out on the back my schedule. The last back page, in a black box I carried every day for the past 13 years, it says, “Daily troop updates. U.S. troops who died in Iraq and Afghanistan: 6,924.” Not around 6,900, 924, because every one of these fallen angels left behind an entire community. They deserve our respect.
 “Troops wounded in Afghanistan and Iraq: 53,194,” not 53,000 about. Folks, my son was one of those who volunteered to go to Iraq for a year, came home and he passed away. He was not a loser. He was an American hero. He won the Bronze Star, the [inaudible 00:14:05] Service Medal. And all his comrades left behind, they were patriots. Who the heck does this guy think he is?
 And now, as a consequence of this overwhelming line and misleading and irresponsible action on the part of Donald Trump, how many empty chairs are there around dinner tables tonight because of his negligence? How many husbands or wives at night lean over to touch and say good night to their wife or husband and they’re not there? How many people have holes in their heart and lost part of their soul? Debbie Ross and I talk about this. How can we have a guy like this?
 Ladies and gentlemen, we’re so much better than this. Despite the crisis we face, we have an enormous opportunity to build this country back better. We’re the only nation in the world, with every crisis we’ve run into, we’ve ended up better off coming out of it than we were before we went in. That’s because America, there’s no quit in America. None! None!
 It’s about time we start rewarding work, not wealth. To get everyone a fair return on their work, an equal chance to get ahead. For example, for communities of color in South Florida and all across this country, the question is how do we break the cycle where in good times you lag behind, and in bad times you get hit first and the hardest, and when recovery comes, you’re the last ones to bounce back? The answer is simple: justice.
 … back. The answer is simple, justice, criminal justice, police reform. I know the nation is strong enough to both honestly face systemic racism and strong enough to provide safe streets for our families and our businesses that too often bear the brunt of looting and burning. We have no need for armed militias roaming American streets, and we should have no tolerance for extremist, white supremacist groups marching on our communities.
 Folks, enough, I say we should trust American law enforcement authorities to do their job, as I do. Let them do their job without extremists and vigilantes. And if you say we have no need to face racial injustice in this country, you haven’t opened your eyes in America. There have been powerful voices for justice in recent weeks and months, I spent time with George Floyd’s family, his six year old daughter, Gianna, when I met with her, I knelt down to say hi to her and she looked at me and said, “Daddy changed the world. Daddy changed the world.” Also, Jacob Blake’s mother, who I got to know when she said, “The violence didn’t reflect her son and the nation needed healing,” and she prayed for the police.
 Or Doc Rivers, a basketball coach, choking back tears when he said, “We’re the ones getting killed. We’re the ones getting shot. We’ve been hung.” Went on to say, “It’s amazing why we keep loving this country, when this country does not love us back.” Think about that. Think about what it takes for a black person to love America. That’s a deep love for this country. That for far too long, has gone never fully recognized.
 We need American leadership to seek out, to deescalate tensions, to open the lines of communication, to bring us together. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have time… President to heal, heal to hope, as President I’ll do precisely what I will do.
 But it’s also about jobs, good paying jobs, financial stability, families of color building wealth and passing it down. That’s how we deliver equality and equity. For example, more and more women are dropping out of the workforce in this recession, whether in a city or out in the suburbs. We have a plan to deal with this pandemic responsibly, tracing, testing, masking, not politicizing race for vaccines. Look, we have to get vaccines, not politicize it. And we have to plan for a safe and equitable distribution. We have to provide what as of today is not happening, funding for protective equipment, PPE, and other resources for hospital and frontline workers, so the schools can reopen safely. We got to ease the caregiving crisis that so many families experience, a squeeze of raising your kids and caring for an aged loved one. You got to protect your health care.
 In the middle of this pandemic, why do the Republicans have time to hold a hearing to pack the court instead of providing significant economic relief and need for localities? I’ll tell you why. It’s about wiping out the Affordable Care Act, to wipe it off the books. Because their nominee has said in the past, that the law should be struck down. That will take away health care for 20 million Americans. It will take protections away from pre-existing conditions for over a hundred million people. And by the way, kids won’t be able to stay in their parent’s health insurance until they’re 26.
 Complications of COVID-19 like lung scarring, heart damage, will become the next pre-existing condition. We’ll toss out, toss out the coverage for so many children. It will take us backwards to when insurance companies could charge a woman, many of you won’t remember this, but charge a woman more for her healthcare than a man, just because she’s a woman for the same procedure. Folks, we can do so much better than this. Together, we’ll build on the Affordable Care Act. By adding a new health insurance option, a not-for-profit option, to give private insurers a real competitor. We’ll increase subsidies to premiums and lower cost to get more coverage, lower deductibles, lower out-of-pocket expenses. And by the way, anybody, anybody who qualifies for Medicare, but lives in a state like your governor that doesn’t allow for 800,000 people to have it, will automatically be enrolled. It’s wrong.
 But we can only do this, if we come as a country. Last week, I went to Gettysburg, the battlefield in Pennsylvania. Abraham Lincoln, to make a point, we’re in trouble. Abraham Lincoln said there, that a house divided cannot stand. Today, trust is ebbing, hope is elusive. Instead of healing, we’re being ripped apart. And I refuse to let that happen. When I announced, when I was running, I said I was running, one of the reasons was to unite America and I was made fun of. They said, “You can’t do that anymore. You used to be able to do it, Joe. You can’t do it now.” But the only way democracy can function is with consensus. Otherwise, it becomes semi-dictatorial like this guys trying to be.
 Look, we need to revive the spirit of bipartisan in the country. A spirit of being able to work with one another. When I say that I’m told that that was fine, Joe. You used to be able to do that, but you can’t do it anymore. Well, I’m here to tell you, we can, we must, and we’re going to get it done.
 Look, I’m running as a proud Democrat. But I will govern as an American President. I’ll work for Democrats and Republicans. I’ll work for those who vote against me, as hard as those who voted for me. That’s the job of a President, to heal. It’s a duty to care, to care for every…
 It’s a duty to care, to care for everyone. Look, folks, and you too have a sacred duty. As my friend, John Lewis, who recently passed away would say, “It’s a sacred obligation to vote. And it matters.” Florida matters. You elected me and Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012. And I’m asking for your trust and support again in 2020 for Kamala Harris and Joe Biden.
 Because, folks, I promise you, I promise you, we will always have your back. I promise you. I give you my word. So, please vote, and help us get out the vote. It’s been mentioned before to go to iwillvote.com/fl. You can still request your vote by mail ballot and do it as soon as you can. If you haven’t already mailed yours and you have one, mail it, or drop it in a box today, drop box today. You can also vote in person starting October 19th here in Broward County where this election will be determined.
 Folks, the country needs you. Tell everyone you know, everyone you meet, to vote no matter what. Don’t let anyone discourage you or tell you your voice won’t count. It does. It will. You are the American people, and you will decide our future, not Trump. So, vote. Folks.
 Thank you. As my friend, the Congresswoman, Debbie knows, I hadn’t planned on running this time. My son had passed away, and I was working as a professor, and I thought, “Enough.” But then, when I saw those people coming out of the fields in Charlottesville, my word, carrying torches, close your eyes. Remember what you saw. Their veins bulging, chanting the same anti-Semitic bile, carrying Nazi insignias that were carried and chanted in Germany, in the 30s. Accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan and white supremacists, David Duke, the grand [preagle 00:27:09] saying, “This is why we elected him.”
 And then a young woman protesting was killed. They went to the president of United States and they said, “Mr. President, what do you think?” Here’s what he said. Something no president in American history has ever said, ” There were very fine people on both sides.” God almighty.
 That’s when I realized, and I said at the time, we’re literally in a battle for the soul of this country, for our decency, our honor, our compassion, who we are. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men and women are great. Folks, we’ve never fully lived up to that. We’ve never walked away from it. Every generation has opened the aperture wider. This is the first president ever that’s flat walked away from it.
 It’s time to restore America’s soul. It’s time to rebuild the backbone of America, the middle class. It’s time to bring everybody along. No matter your race, your age, your gender, your ethnicity, your sexual orientation, or your disability. It’s time to unite America. And we’ll do that by choosing hope over fear. By choosing science over fiction, truth over lies, and unity over division.
 There’s nothing beyond the capacity of this nation when we stand together. So it’s time to stand up, take back this democracy. When I was a kid and John Kennedy said, “We’re going to the moon.” Everybody remembers. We all had to learned what he said about that, the speech. There’s one line and it always used on the Senate floor when I was a Senator. My colleges would kid me.
 And he answered the unasked question, “Why are we doing this?” He said, “Because I refuse to postpone.” I refuse to postpone one more day this president’s irresponsible action. So let’s get up. Let’s take back this country. Show the world who we are. May God bless you and may God protect our troops. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
 … a widow and a dear friend of an American hero, John McCain. We also saw the resilience and the goodness of decency of the American people. They’re not looking for a handout, they just want a fair shot. My dad used to have an expression when he lost his job up in Scranton. When I was in grade school, my dad would say, and we had to move in with my grandparents. When he went down south from Scranton to Wilmington, Delaware looking for a job. And he used to always say that, “The fact is Joey, I’m not looking for government to solve my problems but I hope like hell they can at least understand my problems.” He finally got a job, we could afford to buy a small home. He worked hard to build a decent middle class life. It wasn’t easy for him, but he had an expression.
 As I said, a job joy about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s being uable to look your kidney eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay.” You deserve a president who understands what you’re going through. Who sees you where you are and where you want to be. The last thing you need is a president who ignores you, looks down upon you, who just doesn’t understand who in God’s name we are. That’s President Trump. His reckless personal conduct since his diagnosis. The destabilizing effect it’s having on our government is unconscionable. He didn’t take the necessary precautions to protect himself or others. And the longer Donald Trump is President, the more reckless he gets. How can we trust him to protect this country?
 Governor, you’ve seen how he picks fights with states and pits them against one another. Look, what’s happened. More than 210,000 Americans are dead. 420,000 have been hospitalized. We lose anywhere from 700 to a thousand people every single day in America, worse than any country in the world. More than 7.5 million Americans have been infected. And we’re still counting. And here in Nevada, there have been more than 82,000 cases in total. More than 1,600 deaths. 80% of those deaths have been seniors over 60 years of age. Black, Latino, Asian American, Native-American communities are especially hit hard. Nationally, the infection rate among Latinos is almost three times higher than that of white non-Latinos and the death rate as well as three times higher. More than 40,000 Latinos have died from COVID-19. My heart goes out to all those families who got up this morning and there was an empty chair around the kitchen table. Or go to dinner tonight and the person that should be there is gone.
 They’ve lost part of their soul. They’ve lost part of their life. It’s all about family. With you and I it’s all about family. Losing family is a devastating thing. We can do so much better. My heart goes out to everyone struggling with the economic crisis caused by the neglect, the simple neglect of this President. Nearly 11 million jobs lost since the beginning of this crisis. And they still haven’t come back, including 136,000 jobs here in Nevada. Temporary layoffs have turned to permanent layoffs. Record growth last month and a number of Americans facing long-term unemployment. And the problem of long-term unemployment, once you get beyond a certain point, history shows us that they never get a job again.
 All told, there are now 30 million workers who either lost hours, lost paychecks, or lost their jobs entirely. Roughly 700,000 people have dropped out of the labor force last month. And the vast majority were women. We’re still down 647,000 manufacturing jobs nationwide since the crisis has started. And our balance of payments deficit is going up. And here in Nevada, the unemployment rate is 13.2%, the highest in the nation because of President Trump’s negligence. The hospitality industry has hit particularly hard. The culinary union, has recently said publicly that 50% of their members are still out of work. Tourism in June was down 70% from a year ago. The result? President Trump will be the first president in modern history since Hoover to leave office with fewer jobs than he had when he came into office. Here in Nevada, after seeing over 200,000 jobs created in the last seven years of the Obama-Biden administration, Nevada has actually seen jobs go down under the Trump presidency. He’s leaving us with what he calls, he says is a V-shape recession.
 It’s a K-shaped recession where those at the top keep going up and the middle-class and everyone else keeps going down, getting worse. Means essential workers who sacrificed to keep us going through this pandemic are being left behind by the most unequal recovery in modern history. You get this, the top 100 billionaires in America have done pretty well. Just in the pandemic, the top 100 billionaires have made an additional $300 billion, top 100. But you get the bottom half of that K and it’s a downward slide. You’re left to figure out how you’re going to pay your bills, put food on the table. So much food insecurity in America, in this state. How to balance doing your job with being a teacher for your kids because of the negligence of the President, they can’t go back to school because they haven’t provided the wherewithal for schools to open.
 You’re asked to risk your neck because you can’t work from home where the risk of COVID are kept outside. That’s because you’re a police officer, a firefighter, a nurse, or you’re working on an assembly line in customer service or a checkout counter, or here in Vegas in hospitality. If you’re a housekeeper, a casino worker, the ones who built this very stage. Governor Sisolak, your members of Congress are doing everything they possibly can to help turn things around. Governor, you’ve been focused and responsible. You followed science and put public health and safety. You made tough calls that saved lives. Working around the clock so we can reopen schools and the economy safely. Your members of Congress, have done the same.
 And the House passed what they call the HEROES Act months ago. Would have provided billions of dollars to help states keep first responders on the job. The safety measures needed, the PPP needed to open our schools and businesses but Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell, Republican leader did nothing to move the legislation. Nothing in June, nothing in July, nothing in August, nothing in September, things getting worse and worse and worse. And as people struggled and suffered, what did they focus on? If this wasn’t so serious, you’d think I’m making it up. What they focused on is more tax cuts for the wealthy, not a joke. They’re proposal adds another $30 billion tax cut for millionaires and billionaires. Cuts in funding. Cutting the means by which we fund the Social Security system, leading the actuary of Social Security to say if they do it, by 2023, mid-2023, there’ll be no money for Social Security.
 And a relentless effort to eliminate, as Alejandro said, the Affordable Care Act, which provides healthcare coverage for 22 million people, over 100 million with pre-existing conditions. This is going on at the same time he’s already cost 10 million people their health insurance because their companies have gone bankrupt. It’s unconscionable. Instead of focusing on our needs, your needs, he’s trying to take your healthcare away. He’s literally before the Supreme Court as I speak to strike down the entire Affordable Care Act, take away that healthcare for 20 million Americans. That’s 282,000 Nevadans. Take away federal protections for preexisting conditions, 1.2 million Nevadans. And complications from COVID like lung scarring and heart damage could well become the next pre-existing condition. Striking down the Affordable Care Act would toss out the rule that allows our children to be covered on their parents’ insurance policy until age 26. Take us backward when insurance companies could change a woman more for healthcare than a man for the same procedure, just because she’s a woman. Take away Medicare benefits for seniors. Increase their drug prescription costs.
 And just as he vowed to “terminate” as I said earlier the funding for Social Security. The idea that in just a few years could put at risk 410,000 Nevadans that rely on a dignified retirement because of Social Security. And during all this, not once did President Trump call a high-level meeting of Democrats and Republicans to the White House to resolve these issues. I’ve served with a lot of presidents, never, no matter how good or bad you thought they were did they fail to try to bring parties together in the White House to reach a settlement. You know why? He spent so much time hiding in the bunker in the White House or on the bunker of his golf course, playing hundreds of rounds of golf.
 And then this Tuesday, what’d he do? He said, “End the discussions.” He wasn’t even starting them. No more negotiations. No more negotiations. And now today he says, “Well, I’m back.” One thing for sure, Donald Trump shows no urgency to deliver hardworking Americans, like the family I grew up in. Like all of you. What they need now desperately. For exactly two months since the emergency small business program that your congresspeople voted, for has closed down two months of small business owners in Nevada and across the country, waiting, hoping, for just a little extra help to be able to stay open. Now we have more than 400,000 small businesses have been permanently closed.
 By the way, the largest employers in America are small businesses. Millions more are struggling to hang on. How many more will go under? How many more dreams will be extinguished because of the selfishness of this President and the Republican leaders in Congress? Make no mistake, if you’re out of work, if your business is closed, if your child’s school was shut down, if you’re facing eviction, as millions are, over 20 million Americans worry about whether they’re going to be able to pay their mortgage next month. None of that seems to matter to Donald Trump. You’re a firefighter, police officer, who depends on state and local budgets. He’s turned his back on you as well, because they’ve got to balance their budgets. They’re being laid off all over America.
 When Barack and I were elected, we inherited the worst recession short of the Great Depression in history. He put me in charge of what’s called the Recovery Act. $800 billion. We passed and needed to get out into the economy within 18 months to prevent a depression. We did it with less than two tenths percent of waste or fraud. And I was able to see to it that the states in order to keep moving, keep teachers, firefighters, first responders, all employed. I was able to get $140 billion in aid out to the states. Right here in Clark County, I was able to bring to $1.2 billion to keep your economy going. We have that ability now.
 The House has already passed a similar piece of legislation. And we started the longest sustained recovery in American history. But you know what Mitch McConnell said about help with the states. I’m not making this up. He said, “Let them go bankrupt. Let them go bankrupt.” What in the hell is he talking about? Folks, we’re so much better than this. We can turn this crisis into progress. We contain this virus and fully reopen our economy. We make up 4% of the world’s population and we have 20% of the world’s deaths. If we just follow the science, expand testing and tracing, social distance, washing our hands, implementing nationwide mask mandates. Don’t politicize the race for a vaccine, Mr. President. Just have a plan for safe and equitable distribution.
 On the economy, bring the Congress back together to pass real relief to help people who’ve lost their unemployment checks as well. And then implement a comprehensive agenda that I’ve laid out to make bold investments so we can build back better. He keeps talking about the Republicans. Some Republicans, a lot of them are acknowledging and supporting me, but a lot of them also are talking about, “Well, Biden’s going to spend all this money.” Well, guess what? The independent analysis put out by Moody’s, a Wall Street firm did a detailed analysis of my recovery plan and the President’s. And here’s what they said, it’s off of Wall Street, that my plan will create 18.6 million jobs in four years. 7 million more jobs than the President’s plan. And $1 trillion more in economic growth than the President’s plan.
 Democrats know how to get things done. Here’s how my plan works. It’s not going to raise a penny in tax for anyone making less than $400,000 a year. Not a penny. And how am I going to pay for all this? I’m going to ask the big corporations and the wealthy to start paying their fair share. You realize that the Fortune 500 companies, 92 of them making billions of dollars, don’t pay a single penny in taxes. It’s wrong. Donald Trump paying $720 in taxes? Come on. The money we raise by eliminating the $1.3 trillion of his $2 trillion tax cut that affects the super wealthy and corporations, we’re going to invest in working people. We’re going to grow the middle class to make sure everyone’s included on the deal.
 The kinds of investment that will stimulate the economy, including industries like tourism and hospitality. To get back to full employment fast and help build back better than before. It means the analysis shows creating millions of good paying union jobs. Manufacturing and technology. Making sure our future is made in America. We and the President in the White House gives out $600 billion in contracts per year. Well guess what? While I’m President, it’s going to go to no outfit that doesn’t make it in America, the whole thing, and sell it in America. I mean it.
 And infrastructure. Building roads, bridges, highways, ports, airports, and clean energy. Upgrading four million buildings and weatherizing, two million homes, creating at least a million good paying jobs in the process. Making the climate safer, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil. We’ll deal with climate change by creating millions of union jobs that build a climate resilience of our cities and our towns fighting back stronger, more frequent wildfires. Beating heat waves, droughts, hurricanes, and floods. By the way, did you hear what the President said about hurricanes this summer? He was told about how they’re coming across the warm water in the Atlantic and the closer they get to the shore, the worse they get. You know what he said, Alejandro? He said, “Maybe we should drop an atomic weapon on them and blow them up.” As we say in my religion, “Bless me father for I have sinned.” What’s going on here?
 Under my plan, small business come out the other side of this crisis with access to capital and the ability to deal with their debts. We’re going to get $50 billion in new capital, especially for minority owned businesses and small businesses. We’re going to make another hundred billion dollars in low-interest loans available to these businesses, creating jobs, increasing economic growth and increasing incomes. A $15 minimum wage. I’m dreaming here. But a $15 minimum wage for our essential workers. We’re not just going to praise you, we’re going to pay you with a good wage. Ensure you have strong benefits. We’ll ease the burden of the major cost in your life. We’ll build the Affordable Care Act, writing knew health insurance options, not for-profit public options, which give private insurers a real competitor. We’re going to increase subsidies for premiums and lower your costs. Increase plans that will lower deductibles and lower out of pocket expenses. And we’re going to take on the pharmaceutical industry with a plan that will slash costs of prescription drugs by 50%.
 The reason I’m not going to more detail, you’ve been out here a long time, let’s give me one example. If in fact Medicare is able to negotiate for all the drugs they buy and say you’re not going to be able to sell them to them unless you pay the price we’re suggesting, that would drop by 60% the cost the cost of drugs.
 We’ll also make high quality childcare available and accessible. We’ll work with the states to ensure that every three, four year old will get access to free, high quality preschool. Not, not, not daycare. We’re going to make sure low and middle income families never have to spend more than 7% of their income to care for young children. Because if we truly want to reward work in this country, we have to ease the financial burdens that created the care for families that are caring for raising a child and an aging loved one. Look at the professional caregivers out there, home health care workers, childcare workers, who are more often women. Women of color immigrants, are too often underpaid, under seen and undervalued. That’s why my Build Back Better plan will elevate the compensation, benefits and dignity of caregiving workers and early childhood educators. We’re also going to triple the funding for Title I schools like the one behind me here, which served high number of children from low-income families.
 We’re going to make four years of public college and universities tuition free for any family that makes less than $125,000 a year. We’re going to make community college and job training programs free for all hardworking Americans that qualify. And if you’re buying your first home, we’re going to provide a $15,000 tax credit to help you get there. We’re going to protect Social Security. Increase benefits for millions of seniors. Look, I’m not going to lay it out, but go to joebiden.com. Go to Moody’s, look it up. We pay for all this and we grow the economy at the same time.
 The fact is, President of the United States can only see the world from Park Avenue. He thinks Wall Street built this country and CEOs. I see the world from where I grew up in Scranton, Pennsylvania and Claymont. Communities like some that you live in. I know the middle-class working people built this country. The measure of economic success has been what our families are talking about around the kitchen table. Are you able to look your kid in the eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay?”
 How many times do you know somebody… This morning I had to say, look, I know those tires are bald, but you got to ride on them for another 20,000 miles. We just don’t have the money. We just can’t do it now.” Who’s going to tell her she can’t go back to school because we can’t continue to borrow the money to keep her in that community college? There was a discussion that took place around my table and I’m sure yours as well. But if we’re going to get anything done, we got to come together.
 I made a speech I worked really, really hard on and thought really hard about before I made it in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, on the battlefield last week. I said at that time that we’re facing a crisis, not unlike we did after Gettysburg. I said there that I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I’m going to govern as an American president. The work is hard for those who don’t support me as those who do, because after all this country has been through, after all that America has accomplished, after all the years, we stood as a beacon of light to the world we cannot be that here and now, in 2020, we allow the government, the government of the people, by the people, and for the people, to perish from this earth.
 Folks, we have it our hands. And I made this in the bottom of heart, we have in our hands the ultimate power. And what’s the ultimate power in a democracy? The power to vote. Here in Nevada, the best thing you can do is vote early and return your ballot quickly. Ballots here in Clark County were mailed two days ago, on Wednesday. You can return your ballot by mail. You can drop it off at a drop box or vote in person during the early vote or on election day. But just make a plan. Seriously, go to iwillvote.com/nv. Make a plan. Don’t risk any delays, return that mail and ballot as soon as you can. Make sure your voice is heard.
 We can be better than what we’ve seen. We can be what we are at our best, the United States of America. I’m confident we can bring Democrats and Republicans together again with him gone. Folks, conclude by saying there has never, ever, ever been anything the United States has been unable to accomplish when we’ve done it together. Never, never, never. So folks let’s stand up and vote and take back this country now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. (silence)
 I’ll tell you. And I asked her, “Is that my sister?” I said, “Yeah, yeah.” Look, the thing I love about being here, and it’s been about a year since September I was here last at this very spot, is the one thing we have in common. I mean, this sincerely. I first ran for the United States Senate years ago and I had one billboard. It said, “For all our families.” For real, that’s all it said. All my literature, “For all our families.” And the thing I love about you all, it’s all about family. It’s about family. It’s about family and faith and loyalty, and that’s what I think every time I think you here. And so I want to thank you.
 Now, I’ll tell you what, Edgar planned on bringing in 20 horses in here, but he couldn’t get them in today. Tell you what, I’ve had people campaign for me but never had them go through the neighbors with me on horses. But my dad, who was a real equestrian, would have really been flattered to know you’re doing this. Folks, look, it’s great to be back at the center and I don’t have to tell you all, there’s so much at stake. And here we are, we’ve gone through so much since I was here last, because of the incompetence of this administration. 210,000 people dead. We’re in a situation where that’s 40,000 Latinos nationwide, 40,000. 30 million people lost their jobs. Three million Latinos lost their jobs. One in three Latino businesses have closed, and the deep racial injustices that Trump continues to fan the flames of. It’s just wrong. We have to end this cycle where in good times, you’re being left behind. In bad times, you’re the first in trouble, and as we come out, always the last to come out.
 This crisis, we have I think though an enormous opportunity to build back better. I’m going to be very short, so I’m not going to keep you standing very long. Don’t worry. But I really feel strongly about this. I think we’re in a circumstance where you all understand it, but the American public is beginning to understand it. You are the core of the American story. You have a potential. You’re already an economic powerhouse, but the potential to lead the country in the 21st century into the direction that we need to go. You have close to 20% of the population in the United States, 24 out of every 100 kids in grade school through high school are Latino, and it’s ridiculous that we continue to policies that this administration has moved forward on and not embrace that and see it as our future. I’m not trying to be solicitous with it. I’m not trying to be nice. You are the future of the country. I mean, you really are.
 If, in fact, we’re in a situation where the Latino community in the United States of America and the GDP, the wealth that they generate nationwide, if we just took just the Latino population, you’d be the eighth largest economy in the world, in the United States. Why can’t we see that the future is just absolutely breathtaking if we just use our heads and begin to operate in a way that I think the American people are ready to do? The blinders have been taken off the American people. They get it. They understand. They understand that all those folks in the front lines, look at how many dreamers are out there risking their lives? I mean, you know it, but the American people don’t know it, and I keep telling them all over the country. The dreamers, there’s thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of them risking their lives, making sure that people are staying alive, they can stay home.
 And so, folks, look, we’re going to be in a situation where we can’t make this, we can’t do it without you all. We cannot win without the community. And I’m going to say something somewhat self-serving about you all. The fact is you can determine the outcome of this election, not just, not just for President, but for the Senate, for the Congress. And that’s the biggest mark, the single most consequential thing anyone can do is vote. And when you vote and they add it up and they see who delivered the vote, that’s the thing that guarantees significant input on what happens next. So folks, early voting starts. The clock is ticking. Voting starts here in just eight days on the 17th and I’d encourage you to tell all your friends. Go to Iwillvote.com now. Make sure they’re registered, their addresses are up to date on the ballot, and they have a plan to vote in the early voting right here, right at this spot.
 So come back next weekend, bring your family, and bring five friends. I really mean it. Bring other people with you, because he’s trying to scare us. He’s trying to convince everybody there’s ways they can play with the vote and undermine the vote. They can’t. If we show up, we win. And look what’s happened in early voting all across America. Long lines, long lines. We can’t just win, we have to win overwhelmingly, so he can’t be in a position where you can put the phony challenges that he’s talking about. So, folks, the American people, they’re the ones who decide our future, not this President and Attorney General, who is less than straightforward. You’re the ones. So let’s get out and vote. I know the sun is hot. I don’t want to keep you standing. And I want to thank the elected officials. This we call a bus man’s holiday. That means when a bus man has a holiday, he has the day off, the guy driving, he doesn’t get back on the bus.
 Well, these folks are all on the bus. They’re elected officials. They’re another elected official. I can’t thank you enough for your support. I give you my word I will do everything in my power to deliver on all that I’ve said. I mean it from my heart. You are family. Family and faith are what’s driven this community and is going to drive this country. And so, folks, let’s go get them. This is off. I guess I should have stayed where I was. My grand pop was not Hispanic. He was an Irishman. And every time I’d walk out of his door up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he’d say, “Joey, keep the faith.” My grand mum, when she was alive, would yell, “No, Joey. Spread it!” Let’s go spread the faith, okay? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. By the way, I promise you, if I win, you’re getting an invitation to Washington, okay? Not a joke, not a joke. Thank you. You’re the best.
 Hello, Arizona. It’s great to be back. It really is. It’s great to be back. Thank you, Kamala. Thank you, [Vanessa 00:03:08]. Appreciate it very, very much. And we met backstage, and the first instinct we all had was to hug each other. And we went, “No, no. We got to stay 12 feet apart.” But folks, I want to give a special thanks to Ruben Gallego for being here. And you’re a big deal, man. I’m serious. And I notice he did something that… This is what we call, in our business, a busman’s holiday, coming to hear another politician speak, and having to put a tie on when he shows up without a tie. But thank you very much. I appreciate it, pal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And the president and COO of the Southwest Regional Council, Pete Rodriguez. Where are you, Pete? Is he in here, or is he back in his office? Wherever he is, I want to thank him-
 Not here now? Well, also so Fabian Sandez, president of the local 1912. And you’ve all been with me. We were talking, Kamala and I, coming down the hall, and we said… Not a joke. It was just purely coincidental. She said, “I love the carpenters.” She said, “The first outfit that endorsed me when I ran for attorney general for-”
 “… the DA in San Francisco, were the carpenters.” And I said, “I remember mine well, a guy named Cal [McCullough 00:00:15:29], president of the Carpenter’s Union from New Castle, Delaware, one of the 350 year old city on the Delaware River was the first one to endorse me as well.” And so, you’ve been with me my whole career, and president Doug McCarron has been a long time friend. We’ve worked together a long time. 520,000 carpenters. That’s an incredible army to have behind you. And you are, I’m telling you. You have, my whole career, and I hope you know I’ve had years as well. There’s an old expression when I was growing up in Scranton, Pennsylvania. It said, “You go home with them that brung you to the dance.” Well, the carpenters brought me to the dance, and you’re going home together. You’re going to have a seat at the table.
 Folks, people who shaped the skyline, who build the foundations, everything rely on, the carpenters. Labor brought me to the dance. And the only reason I’m able to run for president is because, standing here today, because of labor. I’ve never forgotten everything you’ve done for me and you’ve done for the country. I really mean it. I get in trouble for saying this, but it’s true. You’re the backbone of America. You’re the spine of America. You’re the ones who actually built the country, not Wall Street, bankers, and CEOs. You’re the ones who are going to rebuild it again. You’re going to build it back better, for real. Kamala and can’t thank you enough. And folks, I don’t know if you caught it, but the senator had a heck of a night last night. I tell you what, you got to give me a great credit for knowing how to pick them. Right? I couldn’t be prouder. She’s like a younger sister.
 I couldn’t be prouder to be running alongside such a leader with remarkable character and vision. And who always, always, always is looking out for the people, always somebody else, not her. Always. And I want to tell you something, Kamala and I are about to kick off a tour, visiting businesses in this community. Small businesses in this community and all communities are more responsible for more jobs than… In the community, local small business owners… They’re busting their necks, than the major corporations. You add it all up, for real. Small businesses create more jobs in America than the major corporate entities. And this community has found itself having to go through some really challenging times, and I need not tell the congressman that. He’s forgotten more about it than most people know.
 And like Chef Silvana. Chef Silvana owns two restaurants here in Phoenix. She had both. When they were struck by COVID, she had to close one of them down. And she’s working hard to keep the other one afloat, Barrio cafe, which we’re going to be visiting later this afternoon. But it isn’t easy. The loan Silvana was able to secure back in the spring because of the legislation passed by the Democrats in the House, helped her for a little while, but it wasn’t nearly enough. She’s scraping by week to week, trying to look out for her 10 employees, some of whom have been with her for decades. And on top of that, she’s facing, and I have permission to say this, she’s facing a terminal disease. Silvana had to cancel her own health insurance after finishing a round of treatment recently just to make ends meet. It’s devastating, and it’s heartbreaking, and it’s wrong.
 Every American should be upset about what Savannah is going through. I think you all are. I know I am. Because I know, we know, it didn’t have to happen. If they had just done what you passed, just move forward. And then, I’ll talk about it in a minute. But Silvana’s story is increasingly common story for Arizona workers and small business owners. Too many Arizonans are facing hard times right now. They’re trying their best, but it never feels like it’s enough. You’re not looking out for a handout. They’re just looking for a fair shot. Just want an even shot. That’s all they’re looking for. And that’s how my dad felt when he couldn’t find work in Scranton when coal died, he had to move on. I remember him taking us, what I call the longest walk any parent has to make up a short flight of stairs to tell their kid, “Honey, I’m sorry, but you can’t go back to St. Paul’s. You can’t go play in that little league anymore. Dad’s lost his job. There’s no job here. I’m going to have to move.”
 I remember him taking us to our grandpop’s house. Me, and my brother, and my sister, and my mom was certainly going to have another child. And we all went home. I thought about how hard it must’ve been for my dad. So many people in this town have done the same thing. Have to go to his father-in-law, the father of four boys and a girl, and say, “I have to ask you a favor.” I know how much pride it cost him. “Can you take care of them for a year? I’ll be back. I promise. I’ll come home every weekend.” It was only 159 miles, but it seemed like the end of the world. But he went down, and by the time he was able to get a good job, a job enough to get us an apartment in a place called Claymont, Delaware. Because he had been raised in Wilmington, Delaware. He ended up, then, getting a good job, a decent job, managing a car dealership. He worked hard to build a decent middle-class life. And it wasn’t easy for him. He had an expression. He’d always say, and really, I mean this sincerely… He said, “I don’t expect the government to solve my problems, but I sure in hell expect them to at least understand my problems. Just to understand them.” And America, I think, deserves a president who understands what the American people are going through, who sees who you are, what you want to be, who cares about your health, your prosperity, your dream, your American dream. You’re facing real challenges right now. And the last thing you need is a president who exacerbates them, who ignores you. And I’m going to say it. I’ve been saying for a while. It’s my perspective from Scranton. A president who looks down at us, who thinks that if you put your life on the line for the nation, you’re a loser, a sucker.
 … line for the nation, you’re a loser, a sucker. As we were talking about with Cindy, my Beau, my son Beau who just passed, not just, passed away, now it’s going on five years, it seems like yesterday, won the Bronze Star and [inaudible 00:22:16] Service Medal. He was a volunteer. [inaudible 00:22:20] but he volunteered. He had to get an exception to be able to go to Iraq for a year. And I promise you, he wasn’t a loser. He wasn’t a sucker. He, like all the veterans we met with this afternoon alongside Cindy McCain, they’re Patriots. They’re people understand that being an American is about recognizing there’s some things bigger than yourself.
 Cindy’s husband, John McCain, who I had the great privilege of him asking me to do his eulogy, we used to argue like hell. We were like two brothers. We’d fight like hell, but we always, always, always ended up together. And that’s how it used to be. It used to be that way across the board. He wasn’t a loser. They’re all heroes. And you know what? They deserve better than a president who will say anything to deflect responsibility for any mistake he makes. I don’t know whether you noticed, he recently said that, they asked him where he got the COVID, he said, “I probably got it from Blue Star parents.” They’re people who lost a child in battle. He said, “Because they like to get close to me and hug me. I don’t know how to say no.”
 Look, we’ve paid too high a price already for Donald Trump’s chaotic, divisive leadership. More than 210,000 Americans have lost their lives to this virus. We lose more every single day. Now, these 6,000 Arizonans have been lost. I mean, 6,000 gone, gone. More than 220, 000 Arizonans have been infected with COVID. 122,000 jobs in Arizona still haven’t come back. Nine times more Arizonans are on unemployment each week than before this crisis hit. But businesses like Silvanna’s restaurant are closing, schools aren’t back to normal, because Donald Trump can’t focus on what matters. When the House passed the so-called Heroes Act, that’s that second big package they passed to get people on their feet again some time ago, but the President and Mitch McConnell did nothing to move the legislation.
 A lot of cities and states are going bankrupt because they have to balance their budgets. Our founders are pretty smart. The reason they wrote the Constitution the way they did is the Congress, the Senate, the House, the government could deficit spend in order to compensate for being able to make sure we got out of the hole. Trump is spending more time, I’ve been calling on this, as you probably know for the last four months, he should get out of his bunker and out of the sand trap from his golf courses. Not a joke. I mean, think about it. He never once, I’ve been around a while, he never one single time tried to bring Democrats and Republicans together in the White House to try to get a settlement. Not once. You can’t name me a President in the lifetime of any of you that refused to deal that way in the middle of a crisis. But the leadership of Congress together to resolve the issue is something that wasn’t on his watch.
 And on Tuesday, Congressman, I’m sure you were probably not surprised by it, but on Tuesday he announced he’s walking away from negotiations to provide additional relief for working people, mom and pop businesses, schools. Just go down the line. On October 8th, exactly two months since the Emergency Small Business Program was closed, two months of small business owners in Arizona and across the country waiting and hoping for just a little bit of help to be able to stay open, more than 400,000 small businesses are permanently closed nationwide, 400,000, millions are struggling to hang on. The legislation has already been passed. It’s there. I handled what they called the Recovery Act when we inherited a great recession. I had the ability to deal with $800 billion spent in 18 months. All the outside groups pointed out less than two-tenths of 1% waste or fraud. But do you know what we did? We provided $ 148 billion to the cities and states so you didn’t have to lay off cops, firefighters, sanitation workers.
 You didn’t have to lay off nurses, close down county hospitals. You kept it open. And America got through it and began to generate the longest period of recovery in modern history. How many more have to go under? How many more dreams have to be extinguished because this President threw in the towel? Instead of focusing on your needs, he’s still trying to take away your health care. I mean, think about that. Just think about it. I’m not, but if I were a playwright, I’m writing a play, you’re in the single solitary outfit on Broadway that would take it, because it sounds like ridiculous fiction, in the middle of a pandemic, when already 10 million Americans have lost her employer based insurance because the employer went under, he’s trying to take away insurance from another 22 million people who got it for the first time in the pre-existing conditions that the Senator talked about.
 He’s in the Supreme Court right now asking you to strike down the Affordable Care Act, the entirety of it, take away Medicare benefits for seniors. People don’t realize how deep this goes, and taking us back to a time when insurers could deny coverage because of a pre-existing condition. I want you to understand this. Women’s rights, I’m not talking about the right to choose now. Women’s rights, do you realize, before we passed, Barack and I passed the law, pregnancy was considered a pre-existing condition. Not a joke. Insurance companies were allowed to charge more for a woman for the same exact medical procedure than a man would have. Same one. And look what’s happened. Minority communities were devastated. But he’s done beyond that. He’s vowed, and this isn’t even get much attention because so much chaos is going on, he vowed to “terminate the funding source for social security.” That’s the holding tax you pay for social security, six and a half percent. He wants to terminate it so it makes it look like you got more in your paycheck.
 But the actuary at the Social Security Department said, “If he does that, social security will be bankrupt by the middle of 2023. Benefits for more than a million Arizonans rely on the whole idea of a dignified retirement.” The fact is President Trump can only see the world from Park Avenue. He thinks that Wall Street built America. That’s why he let big corporations jump in on the front lines and get the recovery money that the Congress helped pass while small businesses struggled to stay open. But people don’t know because it’s so complicated, so much is happening. The Congressman can tell you. There was an Inspector General that they appointed, meaning somebody who had independent capacity to look into anything that was being done on the money being spent. I had an Inspector General overlooking the $800 billion I was responsible for. Twice every two weeks, I met with him in detail so we knew exactly where the money was going.
 What’s the first thing the President did? He fired the Inspector General. Think about that. 40% of all the money that was supposed to go to small businesses in the first time around went to the Mar-a-Lago crowd. The wealthy. I mean, if this wasn’t so true, I’d be reluctant to say it because it sounds so bizarre. This President has forgotten the people he said he’d fight for it. I’ll never forget because I see the world from where I grew up in Scranton and Claymont, a little steel town. I know that the middle class, working class built this country, and unions built the middle class. And I measure economic success on what families are talking about sitting around their kitchen tables, about having a decent job and benefits, about keeping their small business dream alive, about the conversations that took place this morning. But we need four new tires. The tires are bald on the car. We’ve got to wait. We can’t afford to get them. Can’t do it. Who’s going to tell her she can’t go back to the community college because we just can’t borrow any money anymore?
 Or you have 20 million people today, 20 million people including here in Arizona, who are worried about whether they can pay this month’s mortgage payment. 20 million. And look at all the people who are worried they’re going to be thrown out in the street because they can’t pay their rent. These guys provided for all that. But nothing. Being able to look your kids in the eye. My dad would just said, “Joey, a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay,’ and mean it. And mean it.”
 It would be okay. And mean it, and mean it. Well, that’s what Kamala and I are focused on, to say to our kids, “Honey is going to be okay.” That’s what we’re talking about. We’re going to get this virus under control. We’re going to reopen safely and strongly creating good paying jobs and working to end this era of rancor and division. Because if we’re going to get anything done, we have to do it together. I’ve been saying this since I announced and people thought I was being naive. They said, “Oh, you got a lot of things done, Joe, before, but that was the past.” Well, guess what? If we can’t bring the country together, we’re dead. This is a democracy. It depends on a consensus. You’ve got to bring people together.
 It’s somewhat maybe presumptuous of me, but I made a major speech. I worked really, really hard on for a long time in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. And I did it two days ago. And I talked about, in Lincoln terms, that we have to bring America together. We can’t hold grudges. I’m running as a proud Democrat with a capital D, but I will be an American President, not a Democratic president. I’ll work as hard for those who didn’t support me… I promise you and look at my record… As those who did support me. Because the fact is that’s the job of a President. It’s a duty to care for everybody, not just who voted for you. After all we’ve been through, all America’s accomplished, all the years we’ve stood as a beacon to the world, we cannot allow ourselves to remain divided.
 We have the ultimate power in our hands. You know what that power is? That little sticker you have on, the power to vote. Really, you can still register here in Arizona to vote. Early voting has already begun. And the vast majority of Arizonan’s vote by mail. And those mail-in ballots will start arriving in the next couple of days. So Kamala and I are saying to you, the best thing you can do is return your ballot quickly. Don’t risk delays. Return that mail in ballot as soon as you can and make sure your voice is heard, because if your voice can overcome and go out and vote, your voice through your vote can overcome every one of the challenges we face.
 And by the way, you know what they’re setting up. They’re setting up the argument that these votes aren’t going to matter. You saw what happened today. The FBI arrested a group of militiamen who had a plan to go in and to kidnap the governor of Michigan. You’ll see it in the news tonight, the governor of Michigan. Remember those guys with the assault rifles standing in her driveway? And the President is saying things in my debate with him, like “To the proud boys and all white supremacists group, stand down, but stand ready.” This is serious stuff. We can’t just win by a vote.
 We’ve got to all turn out. We can be better than we’ve seen. We can be what we are at our best. If we all get out and vote. And on our best we’re the United States of America and all can decide. It’s not some prosaic thing. The fact is America’s never, never, never, never, ever failed. We’ve stood up together. We’re the only nation in the world that’s come out of every single crisis… war or economic crisis… stronger than when we went into the crisis. So folks, I’m more optimistic today about America’s chances at home and in the world than I’ve ever been.
 I’ve been around a long time. I’ve worked with a lot of Presidents. I really mean it. We have a chance. A chance not only to improve our country, but to change the world. We have the most powerful military in the history of the world, but that’s not why the rest of the world repairs to us. It’s not the example of our power. It’s been the power of our example that has the rest of the world follow us. And that example is being trashed around the world. As the Senator said last night in the debate, it’s true. 17 major countries of the world are asked what leaders did they admire the most and trust the most? The Pugh Foundation, I think. You know what they said? More people trusted Xi Jinping of China and Putin of Russia than the President of the United States. That was profound security as well as economic impact.
 So folks let’s not quit. There’s no quit in America. We have never, ever, ever, ever, ever quit. And if we need you to stand up at any time in our history, we need you now. Thank you for being here. God bless you and may God protect our troops. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, everyone. It’s great to be back in Miami. And thank you, Esther. I told you our family has been, unfortunately, this considerable consumer of healthcare. Please all sit down. Of healthcare and I’ve learned from personal experience as my sons, my daughter, my wife, family has learned if there are any angels in heaven, they’re all nurses, male and female. Docs let you live and nurses make you want to live. I really mean it. They’re there at the tough times. And by the way, thank you for your service in the military, but also thank you for the beginning of this pandemic.
 Being a surgical nurse wasn’t easy when there wasn’t the PPE available to all of you as you walked into those operating rooms and dealt with all the problems. I know my son-in-law’s a physician surgeon in Philadelphia and the stories at the beginning of this process, when we should have had everything available. So thank you not only for your skill and your courage, but your bravery and doing what you’ve done. And I want to thank you for the care dedication that you went on, all your fellow SEIU members, all your nurses that show up and struggle with illness or coping with the loss of a loved one in terrible times.
 So many of you had to hold a phone to a patient’s ear to say goodbye to a family member because they couldn’t be there. They couldn’t see them in the hospital as they passed. Now, I want to thank Victoria, Victoria for sharing her family’s journey with us today. Victoria and I were talking a little bit earlier. I was in South Asia speaking with a president and he asked me what made America unique? And I said immigration because it’s the history of this country. And he looked at me funny. He said, why is that?
 And I said, because almost everybody who’s come here, other than those who came in chains 400 years ago came because they’re escaping something and it took enormous courage. I really mean this. Think about it, enormous courage to leave everything they knew, everything that was familiar, sometimes leaving family members to get on a boat, a plane, train, whatever the means was to be able to leave and start a new life. And to do that, you have to have optimism, courage. You have to be resilient. You have to be willing to believe you can make things change for the better.
 That’s what’s built this country, immigration. We are, not figuratively, it’s a phrase used to not often fully appreciated, a nation of immigrants. That’s why we’re the most unique and strongest nation in the world. It’s family like yours and Esther’s that have made this country what it is through the hard work and faith and perseverance. The richness and beauty of Miami is built from the connections of family, culture, values that we share with our friends throughout the Caribbean and Latin America. Earlier this afternoon, I visited Little Haiti.
 Had been some years since been there when the earthquake occurred and I came to deliver some assistance to the Haitian community, as well as making sure we had temporary protective status granted. It’s a cultural complex and now here at the site name for one of Cuba’s most celebrated poets and thinkers. This city is living proof of the incredible strength that we draw from families and communities from every culture choosing America. So thank you, Victoria, for choosing us and I’m really honored that you’re going to vote for me in your first election.
 I promise you I will not let you down. I promise you I will not let you down. And let me also say at the top, my prayers continue to be with the president and the first lady for their health and safety as they like so many American families are dealing with COVID-19. I was glad to see the president speaking and recording videos over the weekend. Now that he’s busy tweeting campaign messages, I would ask him to do this, listen to the scientists, support masks, support a mask mandate nationwide, require a mask in every federal building and facility and interstate travel, urge every governor, mayor to do the same.
 We know it saves lives. His administration just rejected a mask mandate for public transportation on Friday. The CIA came along and said, we need to be protected and they said, no. I believe that was wrong and not very rational experts say that universal masking could say between now and January 100,000 lives. Let me say that again. Between now and January, mandatory masking could save 100,000 lives. I backed that mandate months ago. He should back it now. Since the president entered the hospital on Friday, since Friday, more than 100,000 more people have been diagnosed with COVID.
 And this week, at least 5,000 more will die. Cases and deaths are climbing in many states. I hope the president’s recovery is swift and successful, but our nation’s covered crisis is far, far from over. Today, my prayers are with the families of the 210,000 Americans who died from the virus. All those families who got up this morning and there was an empty chair at the breakfast table, tonight, an empty chair at the dinner table where one should be, husband, wife, son, daughter, mother, father. And nearly 7.5 million Americans-
 And nearly 7.5 million Americans have been infected with the virus to date. This pandemic and economic collapse has hit the Hispanic communities, particularly hard. Nationally, the infection rate among Hispanics is almost three times higher than white, non Hispanics. More than 40,000 Hispanics have died from COVID-19, devastating families and close knit communities of loved ones. And here in Florida, where Hispanics make up about one quarter of the population, they make up 37% of the COVID deaths.
 Nearly 3 million Hispanics are unemployed. If you break that down, that last data, unemployment for Hispanic women and Hispanic youth actually went up last month. One in three Hispanic, small business owners have taken a hit and many are likely to have to close permanently. Some economists are calling this what they call a K shaped recovery. It means those at the top, they keep going up, their income. But everyone from the middle and lower-income, it keeps going down, keeps getting worse. Means that essential workers, so many of whom are Hispanic, have sacrificed to keep us going through this pandemic are being left behind by the most unequal recovery in modern American history. Because while workers are struggling, this is a shocking statistic, but it’s true, the top 100 billionaires in America have done pretty well. Just since the COVID crisis they have made an additional $300 billion. The top 100 additional made an additional $300 billion. Everyone else though, they got the bottom half of that K, downward, a downward slide.
 You’re left to figure out how you’re going to pay your bills, put food on the table, pay the rent, or if you’re lucky enough to own a home, will you have enough money to pay the mortgage? How to balance doing your job with being a teacher to your kids, because their school has gone remote. You’re asked to risk your neck if you can’t work from home, while the risk of COVID are mostly kept outside, because you’re one of our first responders, a union nurse like Ester or on an assembly line, or working in a customer service or tourism industry or at a checkout counter or police office, firefighter. I know this isn’t an easy time, but I also think this pandemic has just helped us rip off the blinders in this country as how inequitable so many things are. People didn’t even realize, and so now they’ve seen it.
 I truly believe we have a tremendous opportunity to turn this moment of crisis in a moment of great progress for the country. That’s why I’ve laid out a comprehensive agenda, not just to rebuild our communities, but to build them back, make bold investments in them so we can build back better than before the crisis.
 An independent analysis, President talks about… he loves talking about Wall Street. He never talks about Moody’s on wall street that pointed out, they did a detailed assessment of my economic plan and his. And here’s what Moody’s concluded. They projected my economic plan will create 18.6 million jobs, 7 million more jobs in the president’s economic plan will in four years and $1 trillion more in growth than the president’s plan.
 And here’s how it works. I’m not going to raise taxes on anyone who makes less than $400,000 a year. You won’t pay a penny more. I guarantee you. But I’m going to ask the big corporations and the super wealthy to begin to pay their fair share. It’s not punishment. It just about time you start paying your fair share. The money we raise from making sure they pay their fair share will allow me to invest it in working people on a growing middle class.
 When I announced I said I wanted to rebuild the backbone of this country. Working folks, the middle class. They weren’t built by wall street. It was built by labor. Advance racial equity across the economy to make sure everyone is included in the deal this time. We’re going to invest it in creating millions of good paying jobs, union jobs in manufacturing and technology, making sure our future is made in America. In infrastructure, building roads, bridges, highways, ports, and airports like I was able to do when I ran the Recovery Act for our administration, putting billions of dollars in the Port of Miami, creating so good, hard working people with good decent union jobs, able to accommodate the new supertankers coming through the canal, generating some stability.
 My plan will make sure Hispanic communities benefit from hundreds of billions of dollars in investments, to fill the cracks in the sidewalks, install broadband, close the digital divide, create spaces to live, work, and play in safely.
 And clean energy. We upgrade 4 million buildings, weatherize 2 million homes. We’ll create, at least, the estimates are at least 1 million good paying jobs and save us millions and millions of barrels of oil. We’re going to meet the threat of climate change and invest in strengthening climate resilience, where we are already dealing with an existential threat of climate change. I don’t have to tell you in Miami, don’t have to tell you in South Florida or in my state, which has the lowest sea level, lowest degree of height from sea level than any state in the nation. Stronger, more frequent hurricanes, rising tides, flooding. And no matter where the president says, maybe you should consider dropping an atomic weapon on a hurricane coming our way is not a good idea. It doesn’t work. Look, that’s not some distant future in Miami or South Florida. You’re dealing with it right now. What do you have to do to get knocked in the head to understand it?
 We’re going to make sure the small businesses could come out the other side of this crisis with access to capital and the ability to deal with their debts. My plan will get $50 billion in capital flowing to small businesses, which would get repaid in employment and taxes, especially minority owned small businesses and make another $100 billion in low interest loans available to those businesses to get back on their feet and stay alive, because you know as well as I do, and ethnic communities, they are the heartbeat, they’re the center of a community. Whether it’s a grocery store, a beauty shop, the barbershop, the hardware store, the essence of a community. We’re going to make investments to increase incomes as well. It’s long past time. I’ve worked with Governor Cuomo to get it done in New York and other governors across the country. No one should have to work two jobs to be able to be 40 hours a week, so they’re above the poverty rate. $15 should be a minimum wage in the United States of America, period.
 And for our essential workers, we’re not just going to praise you, we’re going to begin to pay you a good wage, be sure you have strong benefits. We’re going to ease the burden of the major costs in your life. What are they? Healthcare. We’re going to build on the Affordable Care Act, which gave 4 million Hispanic people in this country health insurance, by adding a new health insurance option, a not for profit public option. We’re going to give private insurers a real competitor. We’re going to increase subsidies, so your premiums are lower and you can and afford plans with lower deductibles and lower out-of-pocket expenses.
 We’re going to take on the pharmaceutical industry, a plan that slashes the cost of prescription drugs by 60%. You think I’m making these numbers up. If we just let Medicare negotiate independently for all the drugs they purchase, I promise you the rates are going to fall through the floor. Affordable and accessible.
 Every three and four year old will have access to free quality preschool. All the studies at great universities and all the ones around the country have shown that no matter what zip code a child comes from, no matter what background, if they go to preschool, not daycare, preschool in school at three, four, and five years old, they increase exponentially, over by over 50% a prospect they’ll go through all 12 years and many beyond.
 And we’ll make sure, sure that low and middle-income… and by the way, the total cost of that… it’s called Title 1 program. We now spend $15 billion for in school districts that don’t have high tax rates. Well, guess what? You change that to 45. You can put every one of these kids in school, pay the teachers legitimate rate and make sure that you have school psychologists and social workers in those schools. We’re going to make sure that for childcare, for someone under the age of five or six, no one ever has to pay more than 7% of their income for their young children to get quality childcare, because you truly want to reward work in this country. We have to ease the financial burden of the care that families are carrying. Even before the pandemic, and many of you know it and many of you are doing it, millions of working families faced enormous financial and personal strains, trying to raise their kids and care for their parents or loved ones living with a disability.
 It’s going to sound strange, when I first got elected, when I was 29 years old to Senate, right after I got elected, my wife and daughter were killed. My two sons survived after hospitalized for a long time. I needed help do my job. I could not possibly afford childcare. Even though I was making a really good salary of $42,000 a year, more than I’d ever made. And I couldn’t afford it. Being a single mom or dad or a family that has two people working with young children, it’s incredibly costly. And by the way, and the professional caregivers out there, home health workers, childcare workers, were more often women, women of color and immigrants, and too often underpaid, unseen and undervalued. That’s why my build back better plan will elevate the compensation, benefits and dignity of caregiver-
 … Back Better Plan will elevate the compensation benefits and dignity of caregivers and workers and early childhood educators. That’s what we’re going to do. It’s also going to invest in education beyond high school. If you qualify to get into community college, you’ll automatically be able to go, and you’ll be able to go for free. If you are qualified to get into a four-year public school in your state public college, and your family makes less than $125, 000 a year, you get to go free. If you’re buying your first home, you’re going to have a tax credit up to $15,000 to get there. What happened after the Great Recession in this one? An awful lot of you range in age from the millennials have started off back after 9/11, all the way to the people graduating this year… Are not in a position to do that, because your jobs have been postponed or non-existent. But providing an opportunity, I can get you into the system.
 We’re also going to protect Social Security, increase the benefits for millions of seniors. We’re going to do that all in a partnership and lockstep with the Hispanic community. And by the way, the President’s proposal to eliminate the tax you pay when you get your paycheck for Social Security, without any means by which to replace it, the actuary at social security said Social Security will be bankrupt by 2023. They’ve never liked it to begin with. So look, success and prosperity of the Hispanic Americans is indispensable to the success and prosperity of the United States, and of all America. It’s that simple. Hispanic families are responsible today for $2.6 trillion of our gross domestic product, and growing. If that was a standalone economy, a country all by itself, it would be the eighth largest economy in the world. Think of that.
 Now imagine how much more that would grow if everyone had access to the tools they need to succeed. By investing in Hispanic communities, we’re making the smartest possible investment with the greatest possible returns that our nation could make, period. We also need to rebuild our ability to work with our partners throughout the Western hemisphere to realize the enormous potential of this region in the world, to confront those leaders who continue to oppress the rights of their people. We should be leading the international effort to confront the massive humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. Maduro, who I’ve met, is a dictator, plain and simple, and he’s causing incredible suffering among the Venezuelan people to maintain his grip on power. The Venezuelan people need our support to recover or their democracy and rebuild their country.
 That’s why I would immediately grant temporary protective status to Venezuelans as President. So the Republicans in the Senate can’t keep blocking it like they did again just last week. I’ll make sure we’re supporting neighboring countries that are being overrun with immigration because of Maduro, like Columbia, which are caring for millions of Venezuelans who’ve fled their country in desperation. I’ll use sanctions as one of the tools for a comprehensive strategy that includes humanitarian assistance, international pressure, and support for democratic actors in Venezuela to force the regime to embark on the road to a free and fair election. We also need a new Cuba policy. The administration’s approach is not working. Cuba is no closer to freedom and democracy than it was four years ago. The fact there’s more political prisoners, the secret police are as brutal as ever, and Russia is once again a major presence in Cuba in Havana… For my entire career, I strived for democracy and human rights, for freedom of the press, assembly and religion against dictators of the left and the right. As President, my policy will be governed by two principles.
 First, Americans, especially Cuban-Americans, are the best ambassadors for freedom in Cuba. Second, empowering the Cuban people to determine their own future is central to a national security interest in the United States. I think it’s unconscionable that the current administration is deporting hundreds of Cubans back to a dictatorship. There are almost 10,000 Cubans languishing in tent camps along the Mexican border because the administration’s anti-immigration agenda. That’s the administration actively separating Cuban families by not processing visas, through restrictions on family visits and remittances. I think we have to reverse that. The bottom line is that President Trump can not advance the democracy and human rights for the American people when he has embraced so many autocrats around the world, starting with Vladimir Putin.
 Folks, we can do this. We can reach for more as a nation. We can rebuild. We can rebuild the backbone of this country and finally bring everybody along. America’s always done best coming out of crisis. We’re the only nation it’s always come out of every crisis better than we went in. We can build a new administration that reflects the full diversity of our nation, including Hispanic communities. And Hispanic voters, especially in Florida, can help put our nation on a new path forward. And here in Florida today as the deadline to register to vote ends today… If you haven’t registered, go out right now because it is an obligation. Every vote will make a difference. Check and make sure your family and friends are registered, and then make sure everyone has a plan to vote.
 If you can vote by mail, vote by mail. If you can vote in person, vote in person, if you can vote early, vote early. You can vote early in person starting on October 19th in many places in Florida, including right here in Miami. Just make sure you vote. Together we can win. We can’t let this pandemic change everything. We’ve got to get it under control so we can get our economy working again for everyone. We can come together as a nation. I’m running as a Democrat. Proud of it, but I will be an American President, not a democratic President with a capital D. I’ll fight as hard for you and your family whether you vote for me or whether you vote against me because there’s nothing we can’t do when we do it together.
 Folks, I’ve been other more optimistic about our chances as a nation in the 21st century than I’ve been my whole career. There’s not a single solitary thing that’s beyond our capacities as a nation. I mean that sincerely. The most talented workers in the world… We’re the most incredible system in the world. We have a people, who when they stand together, have never, ever, ever, ever failed. Every time I’d walk out of my grandpa’s house up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.” My grandma, when she was alive, would yell back, “No, Joey, spread it.” Let’s go spread the faith. Take back this country. We’re so much better than this. God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you.
 (music)
 Well, John, you are my friend, Mr. President. I want to say good afternoon to everyone, and it’s great to see you all. I’m here today above all else to say thank you. Thank you, President Costa and the entire executive board for the chance to speak with you all today. And thank you for being one of the first juniors to endorse me last year. You stepped up for me and I won’t forget it. And I thank you for the bravery and commitment you show to your jobs and to the people you serve every single day. A lot of people don’t get it. You’re in the front lines of this pandemic. And as we’ve all seen too clearly this week, COVID-19 is still a threat to our health, as well as our economic security. We have to do so much more to step up to get this virus under control.
 We need to take science, the science of fighting this disease seriously if we’re going to save lives. That means making sure essential workers, and you all are that and more, folks like you get to, and the people who are doing all of the work on the buses, subway system, keeping the country moving every single day, you have to make sure you get all the PPE you need. You need it for job safety, and for our safety, to be able to continue to transport people. We need a nation-wide mask guidance so that no one gets on a public transportation unit without a mask. When they turned that request down, the Department of Transportation, they made a gigantic mistake. It’s everyone’s pay … It’s not something that has taken away someone’s freedom. It’s a patriotic duty to wear a mask. You do it not just to protect yourself, but to protect one another.
 It’s essential. You should be worried about the person next to you, in front of you, your husband, wife, mother, father, friend, neighbor. It’s essential. And it can save, as the experts have told us, up to a hundred thousand lives just between now and the end of the year, where it’s estimated by the University of Washington, as many as 200,000 more people will die from COVID unless we do something. 89 ATO members, as you’ve already … We just had a moment of silence, lost their lives to this virus. It’s heartbreaking. Think of the families that get up this morning and there’s an empty chair at the table. It’s unacceptable. We all know. I know what it’s like to have that kind of loss. It’s unacceptable. Even before this pandemic, we knew that your jobs were dangerous. You face harassments and threats of violence and so much more.
 So, we need to put in place the protections and precautions to keep you safe in your work. You’re there every single day for the people who depend on you. You deserve leadership in government who will be there for you, will fight for you, prioritize your health, your safety, and in the process, prioritizing everybody’s health and safety. You’re the ones who fight for the right to organize and bargain collective. And I promise you, the National Labor Relations Act way back in the ’30s, everybody thinks that said, okay, now we can have unions. If you go back and read it, it said we should encourage unions, encourage unions. That’s what it was intended to do. My dad used to have an expression. He said the only way to fight the abuse of power is with power. Power. And the only power we have to fight back is unions, unions who understand that Wall Street didn’t build this country.
 Middle class built this country, and unions built the middle class. That’s not hyperbole. That’s a fact. And I’ll be a president who sees you, respects you, and that’s my promise to you. I’ve been running on support for public transit my entire career. Our transportation workers were with me since my first Senate campaign back a hundred years ago in 1972 when I was a 29 year old kid, and I won by 3,200 votes in no small part because you guys came out for me. Enhancing and upgrading our public transportation structures is an essential part of my build back better plan to get us out of this recession. But I also know that people need help right now. You need help right now. With so many fewer people riding public transit right now, we need to make sure that state and local governments have the funding they need to keep you running.
 Thanks to your leadership, the Cares Act secured $25 billion in emergency operating aid for transit. But I think we need to do more. We need to do more than just thank you. We need to pay you. Excuse me. This pandemic has taken the blinders off so many Americans. It’s shown us so clearly just how much we depend on you and all essential workers and how much we owe you. I’m not just saying that. That’s a fact. So, I’m going to say thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for all you do for this country. And I know there’s so much more to say, but I know you have questions for me, John. And I’d just like to say again, thank you, and I’m happy to take a few questions.
 Fundamentally differently. And I’m in a little bit of a spot here because I don’t want to be attacking the President and the First Lady now because they now have contracted Coronavirus, and Jill and I pray for their quick and full recovery, but our thoughts are with the families and the members you’ve lost as well. We have to bear the grief of an empty chair, an empty kitchen table chair, of not being able to turn and … I find myself when I lost folks in my family, you just tend to go. And you realize, no, it’s never coming back. This isn’t about politics. More than 200,000 Americans have died from COVID. 7.3 million have been infected. 30 million have lost paychecks, hours, or their jobs entirely. And throughout it all, you’ve kept the nation running. You’ve kept people connected.
 You put others before yourselves, and whether they understand it or not, and I think average Americans do now, we can’t thank you enough. It’s always been essential, even if the rest of the country is just learning what an essential worker really is. Now look, here’s what else is essential. Getting you the support you need to do your job. It’s not enough just to praise you. We have to protect and pay you. We have to work as hard as you, as hard work as you do for your communities. And here’s what I’ll do as President. Number one, call on every single American to wear a mask when they’re around other people outside their households. That includes when they ride public transportation, buses, trains airplanes. Yesterday, the transportation department, stupidly in my view, rejected a petition to require just that, wear a mask when you’re on public transportation.
 If I can say something here, this is not about freedom. It’s about patriotism. You wear a mask to protect the person next to you. You wear a mask to protect the bus driver. You wear a mask to protect the person you’re sitting next to on the bus. And to reject the chance to do the easiest thing possible to save lives, I find it appalling. I promise you my Department of Transportation will insist on it. Two, get protective gear to every worker on the front lines. It’s unconscionable that for so long Washington left our states, cities, and transit agencies to bid against one another. If that’s not the President’s responsibility, what the heck is his responsibility? Not my fault. I have no responsibility. Go to your mayor, your governor, your employer. It’s unconscionable that seven months in so many transit employees still aren’t provided enough PPE to keep you safe on the job.
 By the way paranthetically, it’s not just you guys he doesn’t care about. They don’t care about much of anybody. They started off promising they were going to give school teachers and school children masks to go back to school. Then, famous said, “No, it’s not an essential requirement.” Not essential. As President I’d use the full power of the Defense Production Act to get PPE out to every single transit worker, hospital, job site, and school in this country, and I’d appoint a supply commander to make sure it’s distributed fast and fairly. It’s within our power to do this, John. We can do this. And the idea that they’re kicking it off to the, “No, talk to your governor, not my responsibility,” come on. I don’t know. If that’s not a responsibility of a President in the middle of a crisis, I don’t know what in God’s name a responsibility is.
 Thirdly, we’ve got to fix the testing fiasco. Surging tens of millions of test kits where they’re needed most provide free testing and treatment and vaccine when it’s available for everyone, and make sure politics plays no role in vaccine approval. Period. I’ve actually told some governors, John, I probably shouldn’t say this, but you know me, told some governors, “Don’t endorse me. Don’t endorse me because you’ll pay a penalty. You won’t get what you need from the federal government in terms of his covert crap.” Not a joke. My word. Not a joke. We aren’t blue states and red states. We’re the United States. United States. If you elect me President, I’m going to be President for all Americans. I’m running as a Democrat proudly, but I’m going to make sure I’m President for the people who voted against me as much as those who voted for me.
 This division of our country is just devastating. Thirdly, or fourthly, I’m going to enforce tougher safety standards and get schools and businesses clean safety guidelines and resources, implement them. Tell people to stay healthy when they ride with you. And I’m going to fight to get you the hazard pay you deserve. And by the way, it’s not just about getting you masks. We also have to protect you. Look at the people. Look what’s happened to your drivers. A guy getting off a bus and says goodbye, and he slits the driver’s throat and kills him. Look what’s happening. We got to get you the protective gear. Not only that, we’ve got to get you separation. We’ve got to get plastic and coverings around the drivers. You’ve got to make sure that you have separation. There’s so much we can do.
 And it doesn’t cost that much. It doesn’t cost that much. But even if it did, it’s an obligation we have. I really mean it. I find this one of the most despicable things that I’ve encountered in my whole career. When the administration was told that there’s a thousand people a day dying of COVID, the response was, “It is what it is.” It is what it is? It is what it is because they are who they are. That’s why it is what it is. We can change this. I promise you on day one, I will.
 That’s right.
 Yep.
 Well first of all, we have to come together to beat the virus. Every path forward starts there. That’s how we get people back on the train, back on the buses, back on the school buses, back to go. They’re getting their lives back. And it’s how we keep our transit system solid. But along the way, one of the most urgent things we have to do is get emergency fundings out to states, cities, and transit authorities now. Now. Because of the ATU working with the House, you were able to work hard to see the 25 billion in aid that was included in the so-called Cares Act, those first pieces of relief legislation. But I know it’s not enough. Tens of thousands of transit workers have already been laid off. Tens of thousands. And I said for months, the Republican Senate needs to step up and pass another economic relief package right away so painful cuts don’t make this crisis worse.
 You may remember, John, when we went through this with the single-most significant recession in American history short of a depression, when Barack and I came into office and we were inherited the Bush recession. I was asked to manage the Recovery Act, which was $80 billion. Excuse me, $800 billion. And the first thing I was able to do is get over $140 billion to the states and localities so they didn’t have to lay off transit workers. They didn’t have to lay off school teachers. Didn’t have to lay off firefighters. They didn’t have to lay off police officers, because all the cities and counties have to work on balanced budgets. That’s why the founders said we didn’t have to balance budgets nationally to be able to compensate when things got bad. Well, House passed the package twice. It’s time for Mitch McConnell to do his job and save millions more hardworking Americans that don’t lose theirs.
 By the way, we said, “The states are going to go bankrupt.” He said, “Let them go bankrupt.” Well, we need better protection to keep you safe as well during this COVID crisis, as we discussed, but go far beyond. I’m never going to forget the bravery of Thomas Dunn, who was so viciously attacked while driving his route in Tampa last year. But somehow, still steered his passengers safely to roadside before he died. He warned about driver’s safety months before, but was left unprotected. As President, I promise you I’ll fight to get past the Transit Worker and Pedestrian Protection Act to get barriers installed to stop that kind of assault, to reduce blind spots, to make so many other things possible for you. It’s ridiculous. Like I said, I just had my license to drive a school bus when I was in law school. I can tell you what. It was hard just working out what the kids were doing behind me.
 I can’t fathom today. I can’t fathom today driving a bus or running a subway without having more protection. I promise you I’ll invest a record amount in infrastructure, dramatically increasing the funding for public transit to help power our recovery. That includes improving transit bus lines, helping cities and towns and small new light rail networks, investing funds in low-income communities. Somewhere between 60 and 70% of the American people who live in inner cities, their jobs are outside the city and they don’t have vehicles. They need transportation to get to their work, to improve their neighborhoods, to improve their schools. Look, this is a crisis, and we have a real opportunity to build back better. And you all, your dedication is going to get us there. But here’s the thing. Can I go on another minute, John, because I think this is pretty important?
 Look. What people don’t get, you guys get it, is if we invest significantly in transit, I want to invest about three quarters of a trillion dollars in transit overall, because it does two things. One, it gets people off the highways. And if you know if you have long distance transit, if you can get there as fast in a train or on a rail as you can in a vehicle, people leave their cars and get in the rail. That will save billions of gallons of oil over time and deal with pollution. Light rail in cities. I’m going to say something. One of your executive vice-presidents from Detroit, one of the things I was able to do in addition to getting our 200 buses in Detroit, we put in a light rail system. Why? Because an awful lot of those people there worked in the hospitals outside of town. And then in town, they could get back and forth to work.
 It saved the city, and has significantly increased the capacity to do more in the city and outside the city. We’re in a position that if we invest in rail, light rail, if we invest in buses, and we’re going to change the way buses run, we’re going to have buses that run. We’re going to get electric buses down the road. We’re going to own the electric market in vehicles, both in buses as well as automobiles, creating well over a million new jobs. Not a joke. And by the way, the Wall Street guys looked at my numbers and what I was talking about and acknowledged my plan will create seven million more jobs than the President’s, and increase by $1 trillion economic growth, because we have to start using our brain. We can both deal with climate, employment, and health if we in fact move in a direction to focus heavily on transit.
 If I can give you one little example, and I know the folks who are … That’s a slightly different operation, but Amtrak. In order to build, if we eliminated Amtrak on the Northeast Carter, we’d have to build eight new lanes of I-95 from Washington to New York. One mile of I-95, the cement and all that’s needed, is $20 million. $20 million. Imagine what would happen if we didn’t have rail, and imagine what would happen if we had high-speed rail. Imagine what would happen if all these towns and cities had light rail that could get people to and from work. It would save them money, save them opportunities, provide more opportunities for them. I know I’m going on too long, but this transportation is such an incredible part of our economic recovery. And by the way, we’ve got to make sure you start to get paid what you deserve. Paid what you deserve.
 But first and foremost, I promise you I’m going to get you all the PPE that’s necessary. That’s a promise. Secondly, we’re going to make sure you are safe on your transportation system where you are operating it. And that means plexiglass. That means mirrors. That means a whole range of things we can change in order to deal with this. And because I tell you what, you’re the guys and women I grew up with. You’re the people who make it run. Like I said, I’ll end where I began. I view things from Scranton, not from Wall Street. I view things from the folks I was raised with. A trolley line ran by my house. It was a great equalizer for everybody. We’re in a situation where we can change things drastically for the better and help everyone across the board. The wealthy will do just fine when we do better.
 Everybody does fine. Everybody does fine. But most important, your personal safety is critical. And I really mean it. I give you my word. So thank you, John. Thank you for your help. And thank all of you. In case you see me looking to my left here, that’s where all of you are up on the screen. There’s about 500 of you on a screen up here. So hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. And I’m looking at … Where was a beautiful little baby being held by a dad a moment ago? Anyway, that’s awful punishment to make a kid have to watch me on television here on a Zoom, but thank you very much. Appreciate it.
 We can do so much, John. We are in position. If we win this thing, we’re in a position to change the country. I really mean it. I really mean it. There’s gigantic hope out there. I’m confident. There’s so much we can do. And transportation is such a critical part of it all. The overall infrastructure, the overall economic recovery, making sure people … Anyway, I am going on too much, but I love you guys. Thank you.
 We can do this, folks. I promise you.
 Putting on my mask.
 Hey everybody. I have to tell y’all, it’s great to see you.
 Hello Cleveland. Don’t jump. Folks, I was reminiscing as we drove to the station, I spent the bulk of my adult life driving to an Amtrak station. I commuted every day from Wilmington, Delaware to Washington DC when I got elected as a young Senator, right after my wife and daughter were killed, and I didn’t plan on staying in the Senate, but I agreed I’d stay for six months, a long time ago, and I started commuting and the fact is they tell me I’ve logged more than 2,100,000 miles on Amtrak. So it’s good to be here. It’s not as fast as the helicopter, but I made a lot of family and friends on Amtrak. So I’m looking forward to getting on the train with you guys.
 I want to start off by saying that it’s great to be in Ohio and with my so many friends, members of Congress, local elected officials. It’s an honor to be here with Tiffany. I know how hard it is for her. And I say I know, I was in the position of her children. My dad went through the same thing, Mr. Mayor. Back in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he lost his job. And I remember him walking up the stairs, making what I call that longest walk a parent has to make to tell a child that he’s going to have to leave. My dad didn’t have an eight hour ride. He only had a three hour ride, three and a half hour ride. He moved to Wilmington, Delaware. Took a couple of years before he could bring us back down to Delaware, come home every weekend, but to make sure that we’re all together again. It’s a hard slog. A lot of people have made that. And Tiffany, you’re a wonderful, wonderful mother, teacher, and the way you talk about your husband, he and I have something in common. We both married way up. I want to say that my dad, when he was, I apologize to Congressman Lamb, he’s heard me say this a lot, but my dad, when we moved back to Delaware, moved to Delaware, would say all the time to his children, my siblings and I, he’d say, “Joey, a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about being able to hold your head up. It’s being able to look your child in the eye and say, it’s going to be okay. That’s what a job is about.” And Tiffany, when I think about your husband taking that job eight hours away, although it’s a hundred years ago, I think about my dad, and I imagine your husband has the same stamina, and you do, as my mom and dad did.
 The fact is that last night’s debate, and this election, is supposed to be about you, Tiffany, about you and all the people I grew up with in Scranton, and people in Youngstown, and Claymont, Delaware, and all the people who make a difference. Does any President, does your President understand at all what you’re going through, what so many other people are going through? Question is does he see you where you are and where you want to be? Does he care? As he tried to walk in your shoes, to understand what’s going on in your life? Or does he just ignore you and all the folks all over America who are in a similar situation? I think he’s more than ignoring us. I look at things from Scranton’s perspective, he looks at from Park Avenue. I think he basically looks down on us. He judges us.
 The fact is that I think that when he called our military, and I see we got some veterans here too, thank you for your service man, but when he called our veterans who lost their lives and served suckers and losers, I thought it was one of the most despicable things that I’ve ever heard a President say. Guys you are soldiers or a veteran, you served your country, like you did, like you did Connor, like my son did. What he does, he lies to you. He lies to you about exactly what’s happened. Does he lie to you when, like this president did to your husband, that all the workers at GM plant in Lordstown were going to be in good shape. You remember what he said?
 And you said it to me, he said, “Don’t move. Don’t sell your house because no Ohio factory will shut down in Donald Trump’s America.” He doesn’t pay his fair share, don’t worry about that. He doesn’t pay his fair share in taxes. He says that makes him smart. What does that do? What does that make you, Tiffany, make me, and millions of other hard working Americans, decent people who pay our taxes? Are we the suckers? Are we stupid because we go by the rules? He’s too weak to beat the pandemic. Cost him more than 200,000 American lives. That’s upended every part of our lives and hit working people particularly hard. Your businesses are closed and schools aren’t back to normal because Donald Trump hasn’t done his job.
 He hasn’t pulled Congress together to provide real relief for working people, moms, and dads, and business owners. The fact is Congress has passed a significant recovery bill, but he’s too busy being in a bunker, or in his golf course to call them into the White House to work out an agreement. He told FEMA to cut off funding for school PPE, masks, and protective gear, because it’s not a national emergency. His response during the deadly pandemic is to try to take your healthcare away by asking the Supreme Court to strike the Affordable Care Act in its entirety. Wipe it out.
 … the Affordable Care Act in its entirety, wipe it out, taking us back to a time when insurance companies could deny you coverage for preexisting conditions. Now, because of COVID, lung scarring or heart problems is a consequence of having survived COVID. That could be the next pre-existing conditions affecting millions of people. Taking away Medicare benefits for seniors. Throw your adult kids off your healthcare insurance.
 Think about his plan for your social security. The social security actuary said that if he follows through on his plan for social security, social security will be quote, “Bankrupt by 2023.” It clear that he not only cares about Wall Street and the super wealthy and the Fortune 500, he thinks they built this country. That’s why he wants another $30 billion tax cut for the hundred wealthiest billionaires in the country, who have already made $ 30 billion during this pandemic. So they’ll pay a lower tax rate than you do as a teacher, a factory worker, a firefighter, a nurse. He gave a tax giveaway for corporations and they moved jobs overseas to sell goods back to the United States. Here comes the train that he tried to make sure didn’t continue to run.
 That’s the commuter. All right. But folks, look, he let big corporation jump in front of the line to get the recovery aid that Congress had passed while small businesses are struggling to say open. In the end, his measure of economic health is the stock market. In four years as president, he’s broken his promise, he’s forgotten the forgotten Americans he said he was always going to fight for.
 Well, I never will forget. I know the middle class working people built this country and I measure our economic success by what families are talking about around their kitchen tables this morning. Some of them with an empty chair because they lost a family member. The ones I saw every night on my train ride from Washington to Wilmington, Delaware, as I said after my wife and daughter were killed when I was first elected, I started going home every single night so I’d be there in the morning to get my kids, Beau Hunter and Ashley ready for school. Actually, Jill, God love her, she came into our life five years later and made things good.
 For 36 years, I said, I took that 250 mile round trip journey each day. I’d get to know the train engineers, the conductors, the fellow passengers, and at night, I’d see the pinpoints of lights in the homes in the cities and towns along the way from Washington to Wilmington and wonder what those families are talking about after they put their kids to bed. My guess is the same thing that all Americans across the country are talking about today, asking questions as profound and as ordinary as, will we be okay? Will we be able to keep our insurance? What are we going to do?
 Folks, this election has a choice between Scranton and Park Avenue values, between Cleveland and Park Avenue values, between Alliance and Park Avenue values. But it’s also about something deeper. Can these parents look their kids in the eye and say, ” Honey, everything’s going to be okay.” These are the conversations I’m going to be having today in this whistle stop tour through Ohio and Pennsylvania, talking to folks about how I’ll get the virus under control, lay out the plan, bringing Congress together to provide relief and resources to schools and business so we can reopen our economy safely and strongly with a real plan and real leadership.
 Talking to folks about how I’d create good paying jobs, union jobs, to support working families and build our economy back. Not just back, but build it back better. I’ll protect your Medicare and social security and how I’ll fight to protect pensions, including fixing [inaudible 00:31:13] employer pensions so that many union women and men in Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, Delaware, all across this country, are able to keep what they earned and deserve.
 I’ll fight for American jobs with the dignity of work and make the wealthy and corporations began to pay their fair share. I’ll protect your right to healthcare and build on and improve the Affordable Care Act and I’ll always tell you the truth. I’ll always care about you, whether you vote for me or not. If elected, I’m not going to be a Democratic president, I’m going to be an American president. Whether you voted for me or not, I’m going to be your president and I’ll never forget the people, the working people of this country, because that’s what I’ve come from. That, given just half a chance, the American people can do anything. Just like you, Tiffany, and your husband, you’ve stood up. You can do anything. I want to make something absolutely clear. There’s overwhelming reason for optimism. Reverend, as you said, there’s overwhelming reason. We just have to unite. The country is ready to do that. We’re better positioned than any nation in the world to own the 21st century, we just have to do it and do it together. So I leave you Rev and thank you for your invocation by saying, God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Keep the faith. We’re coming back. Thank you.
 … I just want you to know that I appreciate the opportunity to be here and appreciate the opportunity to move on. Alliance started as a place where people came together and it’s what we so badly need to do now in this country, is begin, again, to come together. We rode today with some remarkable Ohioans and whose families are here, Tiffany Davis and her husband, Tom, and her kids and Jacqueline, [Komar 00:00:25] and her husband, William, and their daughter and grandson, and [Dave Worshack 00:00:35] and his wife, Kathy, and their children.
 It was an honor to get a chance to meet them and to spend a little time talking about their circumstances. How Tom who worked online at Lordstown is now making that eight hour drive to Kentucky so he can keep a job and make a living, and Jacqueline who taught high school math at Maple Heights for years, and now worries, what’s going to happen to William if they lose the protections that are available through Obamacare for preexisting conditions? And Dave who’s fighting like hell for his coworkers after management announced the Akron plant was going to close this year. Like millions of hardworking Americans, they’re not looking for a handout, they’re just looking for a fair shot to be seen, to be understood, to be heard.
 They remind me of my dad. I was from another Valley, a little further East, the Lackawanna Valley, Scranton, Pennsylvania. My dad had a job in Scranton and when coal died and everything started to close up, we ended up in a circumstance where my dad did what you’re doing old buddy, only he didn’t have to do it for eight hours, what made that, what I called the longest walk a parent ever has to make, up a short flight of stairs and say, “Honey, I’m not going to be home during the week. I’m going to have to move down, in this case, to Delaware.”
 That was only about a three and a half hour ride at that time, not an eight hour ride. He did that for well over a year, and finally was able to get us to … We had to move. There was no work. My dad, it just reminds me of what he used to always say, and I apologize the press hearing me say this many times, but it’s a fact and it’s relevant. My dad used to say in Wilmington, Delaware, when we finally were able to purchase a home, move on an apartment and get going again. My dad would say, “Joe remember, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to hold your head up. Be able to look at your kid and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay.”” “Well, the fact is I don’t expect the government to solve my problem,” he’d say, “But I do expect them to at least understand the problem.”
 That’s what last night’s debate was about, this whole election is about, does your president have any idea and understand what you’re going through? And if he does, does he care about it? Is he able, as my mom would say, be able to walk a mile and your shoes, if you wanted to know me, they’re able to do that? Or does he just ignore you, look down on you, lie to you, like this president did when he told Ohio workers that, “Don’t sell your house, don’t sell your house because no more factories are going to close.” What I saw last night was all about him. He didn’t speak to you or your concerns or the American people even once.
 Donald Trump broke his promise. He said he was running for the forgotten American. As soon as he got elected, he forgot them. I’ll never forget. You know, I understand what you do. Wall Street did not build this country. CEOs did not build this country, hard working average American people, given half a chance, built this country. The middle-class built country and unions built the middle class. I tell you what, I never forget that where I came from. A measure our successes as a nation is not how well the stock market is doing. It’s what families are able to talk about and what they deal with at their kitchen table.
 Many of the people who will hear this today woke up this morning at a kitchen table where there was one less, was an empty chair or one less chair, because they lost someone. 205,000 dead because of COVID. Over 7 million infected. It’s just … And what happened last night? Did you hear a word from the president about any of that? Look tables like the one that we saw last night are ones that were set by Trump. For 36 years, as I said, I took a 250 mile round trip on Amtrak every day to commute from Wilmington to Washington. I got to know the engineers, the conductors, the folks in the food service card.
 At night as I’d ride home and going between Washington and Baltimore, I see those lights on and those homes along the tracks, middle-class homes, three bedroom split-level types that I grew up in, and I’d often wonder, “What are they talking about? What are they dealing with? What’s going on in their heads? What was it like what’s going on at my house? “No, honey, you got to ride on those tires for another four or five, 6,000 miles. We can’t afford new ones right now.”” Or who’s going to tell her? Who’s going to tell him they can’t go back to that school because we just don’t have the money? Or what are we going to do?
 I can remember my father, we lived in a three bedroom house with four kids and a grandpop. I can remember the walls were thin. I can remember my dad rolling around at night. I could hear him. Our room was next to him. I remember asking my mom one day, “What’s the matter with dad?” She said, “We just lost the insurance. We have no health insurance.” So look, these are the things that people are worried about. My guess is that the same thing is happening everywhere in America. The question people are asking is, is it going to be okay?
 Folks, this election, in my view, is between Scranton and Park Avenue, between Alliance and Park Avenue. It’s about whether or not the parents are going to look their kids in the eye and going to be able to say, “It’s going to be okay.” That’s what we talked about on the way down here on the train. We talked about it all along this whistle stop tour because I’m coming into places where people are hurting, where people have lost their jobs, but where there used to be real opportunity. This is all about, in my view, how we’re going to support working families to give people an equal shot, just so they can be able to have a chance to be able to just make a decent living.
 And folks to protect your pensions, your healthcare, to make the wealthy and corporations pay their fair share. To me, that’s what this is all about. It’s a trade-off. Do we allow corporate America to continue to pay [inaudible 00:07:21] pay no tax at all while you’re having your healthcare taken away in the name of, “We can’t afford it.” Do we allow billionaire to get another $30 billion tax break So they pay a lower rate than you pay if you have a job as a school teacher? Do we allow that? Or do we invest in our schools? What should we be doing right now? And what should we be doing for the last five months?
 The president, instead of being in the sand trap in his golf course, should be in the White House and the Oval Office, inviting Democrats and Republicans to be there with him and to settle, settle how we’re going to make sure we can bail out the small businesses that are going under. Make sure people can keep their insurance, making sure we have the ability to open our stores and our schools safely. It costs money to do that, but what’s he doing? He’s doing nothing.
 By the way, I find it fascinating. They had time at the very end of this election to hold a hearing on a Supreme Court justice, but the Senate does not have time to deal with making sure schools and businesses have the PPE they need, the protective gear, does not have the sanitary conditions available to them and the money to pay for them to open up, does not have the capacity and so on. It’s kind of amazing, isn’t it? They have time to rush through a nominee after an election has already started, but no time to deal with the everyday concerns about the American people.
 Look, let me conclude by saying, not withstanding where we are right now, I am extremely optimistic. I’m optimistic because the American people know this is not who we are. They’re ready to get up again. They’re ready to come back. We just have to give them a shot. So we’re better positioned than any nation in the world to take back this 21st century, we’re ready to do it, but we’re going to only do it if we do it together. If I get elected president, I’m not going to be the Democrat president, I’m going to be an American president. I’m going to represent you whether you vote for me or you vote against me. This is about the United States of America, our place in the world and the security and wellbeing of people just given an equal chance, an equal chance to have a shot at the American dream that’s been denied them right now.
 Thank you very much for listening. I’m happy to take questions. I don’t even know where to start. I guess I’ll start and work my way a little bit. Yes?
 It’s not an inconsequential assertion. Look, he did what I expected him to do last night. He announced what he was going to do. He announced he was going to … I think the phrase was, “Now we can become really vicious.” I think that was his phrase, at some point. Look, last night reinforced for me why I got in this race in the first place. Last night, and I said, when I got in the race, we were in the battle for the soul of this country.
 Can you all see me? Should I turn this way a little bit?
 Trump’s constant disregard and unwillingness to speak to COVID and the fact that 205 thousand people have already died, and over 7 million are infected and it’s likely to get worse. He didn’t want to talk about it at all.
 In terms of election legitimacy, he made it clear that if he lost, it wouldn’t be a legitimate election. Already began to plant seeds of doubt in the legitimacy of this election. I don’t know any president’s ever done that before. His dog whistle, the white supremacy, when asked, “Would he condemn white supremacy?” He didn’t say a word. Then when I said, “Well, how about the Proud Boys?” Which is a white supremacist group. He said, “Well, I just told them to stand down and stand ready,” stand down and stand ready based on the outcome of the election?
 Last night was, I think, a wake up call for all Americans. What I tried to do, last night, I tried to speak directly into the camera to the American people, to talk about their concerns, to talk about what’s on their mind, to talk about what I would do, were I president. Trump has no plants, no ideas, didn’t express a single plan that he had about how he’s going to move forward. It made me realize just how much is at stake. For 90 minutes, he tried everything to distract, everything possible and it just didn’t work. But I hope that this next debate is going to be in front of real live people, it’s going to be a town hall. I just hope we’re able to … I’m looking forward to it. I hope we’re able to get a chance to actually answer the questions that are asked by the persons in the room, but God only knows what he’ll do. Yes.
 Well he not only attacked me constantly, and my family, but he attacked the moderator. Again, on his tweets this morning or last night. I just hope there’s a way of which the debate commission can control the ability of us to answer the question without interruptions. I’m not going to speculate on what happens in the second or third debate. My hope is that they’re able to literally say, “The question gets asked of Trump. He has the microphone, he has two minutes to answer the question. No one else has a microphone.” Then I don’t know what the actual rules are going to be, literally, but that would seem to me to make some sense, but I’m looking forward to it.
 I can understand it. It was … I kind of thought, at one point, maybe I shouldn’t say this, but the president of the United States conducted himself the way he did. I think it was just a national embarrassment. But look, I just hope that the American people and those undecided voters try to determine what each of us has an answer for their concerns and allows us to actually speak. Yes.
 Cease and desist. Cease and desist. The American people will decide who the next president of United States will be period. So I’m urging the American people go out and vote, show up. If you can vote early, vote early, vote whatever way is most convenient for you, but vote. If you show up in large enough numbers, nothing is going to change.
 I promise you if in fact we win this election, this president will step down. It’s a lot of bravado. He has no alternative. The American people will not stand for it, no agency would stand for that happening. My message to the Proud Boys and every other white supremacist group is cease and desist. That’s not who we are. This is not who we are as Americans.
 All right, I’m going to let you pick somebody because you got everybody out here.
 I think this works, yes.
 No, I haven’t. I appreciated her endorsement. Look, we had a debate with, I don’t know, 20 to 25 people in the Democratic Party. I said at the time that I would tell you exactly what I believed and I would say why I believed it and why I was running. That’s exactly what I did. I did not support Medicare for all. I do not support it now. I support the Biden plan that I’ve laid out. I’ve laid out the most extensive plan with the detail on how I will get us to net zero emissions in the energy sector by 2035, putting thousands of people to work. I’ve laid out how, in fact, I’m going to get us to net zero emissions in the United States of America by 2050 across the board, how I’d rejoin the Paris Accord, which I helped put together, et cetera.
 So the Green New Deal that the president keeps trying to talk about, it’s not a bad deal, but it’s not the plan I have, that’s the Biden green deal. That’s what this is about. What the president keeps trying to do is he’s trying to run somebody other than me. I’ve said to the left, to the right, and the center, exactly where I am on each of these issues. I did have time and I’ve worked very hard with all segments of the party. We put together a platform that is a platform that I fully support.
 The President keeps talking about … What’s he call it? He has some name for our platform, I can’t remember what it is. Is the-
 The manifesto. Thank you. The manifesto. Well, the Democratic platform is the one that I’ve signed on to. The one that the vast majority, overwhelming majority, of Democrats signed on to. But the democratic party is a big tent and we have all kinds of folks in it that have different views and they’re all welcome. We negotiated, we debated and we had a primary election and I won and I’ve laid out what we’re going to do. So I’m not worried about losing the left, right, or the center of the party, this is a big party, but I have one of the most progressive records any Democrats run on. I’m proud of it, but it’s my record, and it’s what I want to do. So thank you. Thank you very much.
 You don’t mind, I’m going to get in trouble with the conductor because I’d like to stay and answer a lot of your questions. Do I think he’s created a crisis in confidence? Look, all you have to do is look at the polls all your networks run, and a significant member of the American people are worried about what he recommends having anything to do with … Look there, right? Is that what you’re trying to tell me? To deal with the COVID crisis. They’ve lost confidence in him.
 So that’s why I think it’s really important that the scientists continue to speak out, say exactly what constitutes an appropriate approach to dealing with COVID, whether it is a vaccine or any other proposal, and God willing, we’re going to have a vaccine sooner than later, God willing, we’ll be able to distribute it as rapidly as possible.
 But it gets down to, ultimately, the American people have to have trust in the what the president says, and it’s quite clear, many, many, many people don’t trust him. As it relates as well to businesses. They say, “Open up.” Even businesses opened up are having trouble getting people to come in because, in fact, the president says things that are just not accurate.
 But I’m confident that we’re going to get in this train or y’all are going to have to run behind it and we got to get going. But thank you all very much. I’ll talk to you the next stop, wherever I’m doing. Thank you.
 Hello everybody. Very great to be back with all of you and Keisha, thank you for your friendship and Eric yours as well. And you’re both been doing a heck of a job. Look, I want to thank everything you’re doing and for the faith you’ve placed in may so early on, but look, I’ve had the privilege of speaking to this body many, many times over the years from the time I was a senator and as Vice President, and I’ve always had enormous respect for just how tough your jobs are. I’m not being solicitous. I used to be a county councilman in Delaware. I only ran for the United States Senate because I realized how hard local office is. I kiddingly say that I did it because, I ran for the Senate because it was easier.
 But the quality of people’s lives is so much more in your hands and on your shoulders than anyone else. Making sure people feel safe walking down the street, making sure the garbage gets collected, making sure the schools are safe and open. All the concrete things that make everyday life or break everyday life. They’re not partisan things. They’re just practical things. People look to you, Democrats and Republicans. You’re also on the front lines of emergencies. From fires to floods, to school shootings, to public health issues, helping save lives as well as livelihoods. That’s why I’ve made it a priority of my entire career to work closely with you.
 From the time I got to the senate 180 years ago, as well as my tenure, as vice president. You know, if I have the honor of becoming your president, I make this commitment to you. You’re going to have an access directly to the White House. I’m going to be right there with you, helping you and your communities based on what you think you need and the challenge you’re facing because the president, the mayor pointed out that it is about all from the bottom up. It doesn’t go from the top down. We’re dealing with four historic crises all at once. A once in a century pandemic that has claimed over 200,000 American lives, a devastating economic recession, a long overdue reckoning on racial justice and a change in climate that’s ravaging communities all across the country.
 I need not tell that to Eric and the mayors in California and Oregon and Washington state. Not one of those crises should have a partisan dimension. I really mean that. Not one single one. If I get elected president, I’m not going to be the Democratic president, I’m going to be an American president. Whether you voted for me or against me, whether your city is red or blue, I’m going to be there. I promise you. Frankly, we should be able to address each one of these the same way mayors solve problems, by leading with the facts and with reality, putting the wellbeing of our constituents first, uniting people around solutions that work for everybody, but tragically, that isn’t how this current administration is wired.
 The only problems that matter to this president seem to be problems that affect him personally. He defines everything in a red and blue, blue states, red states, Democratic cities, Republican cities. I think that’s explains why one day before we hit 200,000 deaths, the president held a campaign rally and insisted that the virus was, “Affects virtually nobody.” Then he went on to say, “except elderly people with heart conditions and problems.” Ask the folks in their communities how they feel about that. Their parents that are being referred to by the president as nobodies. Ask their families of that empty seat at kitchen table this morning, if that’s true they’re nobodies. Kids who lost their teachers. Parents, and grandparents, friends or coworkers, sisters or brothers, never going to see again.
 The problems we’re facing affects all of us, every one of us in every community. I think this may be the toughest time in a long time to be a mayor, especially a big city mayor, but that’s not true across the board. Mayors have faced adversity before. Some of you remember back in 2008, the economy was in free fall. We were losing 700,000 jobs a month because of the recession we inherited. Families lost, and I know you remember this, families lost more than $16 trillion, families, in personal wealth. People who had never missed a mortgage payment, all of a sudden were underwater, being foreclosed on because of the number of foreclosures that occurred on their streets significantly reducing the value of their home.
 Was devastated. We didn’t solve it by saying, “You’re on your own. It’s what it is.” We came together. With your leadership, we passed and implemented the Recovery Act. We provided $140 billion in state and local fiscal relief, keeping law enforcement and firefighters on the job. We sent more than $50 billion to your school districts saving more than 300,000 education jobs. We provided the Middle Class Tax Relief, helping families send their kids to college, to buy their first home. We invested in the future. We put $48 billion in infrastructure projects building 42,000 miles of roads, nearly 27,000 bridges to go along with the biggest clean energy investment in all of our history, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs.
 And I said then and I say again, you should be able to make the decisions of what your city most needs. It shouldn’t have to go through your state legislatures all the time. You should have an opportunity. Even conservative economist acknowledge that what we did saved us from a depression. When the president gave me the honor of leading the recovery effort, first thing I did, I went to the mayors. Some of you were still around then. I spoke with over 200 mayors. Because of you, we came through the moment together. I really mean it. I spoke on the phone constantly. That’s the same approach we should be taking today.
 It starts with your budgets. You have to balance your budgets. You’re getting squeezed like never before. Local services are getting pared back, municipal jobs are falling by the wayside, furloughs and layoffs, compounding the devastation. We still have no effective of national standard for curbing the virus, which is infuriating because scientists insist we can save 110,000… They expect close to 200,000 more lives to be lost between now and January. They insist we can save 110,000 by the end of the year by simply wearing masks, and that’s straightening your budget even more because it keeps businesses from opening, opening back up. It keeps emergency rooms full and holds down your cities from springing back to life.
 There is no reason, none, why we can’t work together, we can’t work together again to overcome these challenges. You all know the House passed the Heroes Act, which should provide $915 billion in local and state government. It’s collecting dust right now on the Senate. Majority leader who I know well says, “Let the states go bankrupt.” [inaudible 00:10:58] having a local emergency fund that drives resources straight to you, expand your health infrastructure, reimburses overtime pay for the essential workers and first responders. Whatever your community needs the most, it isn’t all about resources though.
 The time when people are crying out for justice, exercising the right to peacefully protest, it’s falling on you to keep the peace and god, it’s a tough job on any circumstances. It’s nearly impossible where the president scapegoats his mayors and fans the flame of division. We can work together to build trust and accountability between police and communities, to condemn all violence, while still addressing the pain and injustice that they’re feeling and rooting out systemic racism. And as you all deal with the effects of extreme weather, fires, floods, superstorms where it’s like we’ve never seen.
 We can work together to invest in our communities to make them more resilient to climate change. The problems are different in every… Some places it’s about flooding, some places it’s about being wiped out by storms along the coast where I live. Sometimes it’s about being safe, just keeping people safe from fires, but it also is about being able to create millions of jobs, modernizing your buildings and your transportation system, making your community stronger, greener, better position to seize the opportunities in the years ahead. That’s what I plan on doing to get to you. That’s what we did when I was vice-president. That’s what we’ll do if I have the honor of becoming your president.
 What we can’t do though, is divide ourselves into pieces. That’s the only strategy this president seems to know, but it doesn’t work. It can distract you from a problem. It can create a new problem that occupy your attention, but it can’t actually solve anything. You all know better than anyone, dividing ourselves gets us nowhere. We have to work together in good faith, competently, efficiently leading with the facts. We can disagree on policies but we have to cooperate. It’s only the way we’re going to come out of these crises and ensure that our best days are still ahead, which I firmly believe they are.
 That’s what we’ve done, tried to do in this campaign and that’s what I’ll do as president. Work with all of you. Democrats, Republicans, independents. As I said, if I’m elected president, I’m not going to be a democratic president, I’m going to be an American president. Blue cities, red cities it does not matter to me. I promise you. Every American community deserves the full support of an American president.
 Look, being a mayor and you know I’m not kidding about this, is hard under the best of circumstances, but the worst thing a president can do is to drive wedges and make your job tougher because he thinks it benefits him or stirs up chaos in your communities. You deserve a partner who’ll listen to you, who’ll work with you, work on your priorities. Someone who gets your back and saves your back, works to cover your back no matter what you are and no matter what challenge you’re facing.
 This moment we’re facing now, isn’t a partisan moment. It’s an American moment. It sounds corny, doesn’t it? But it’s true, it’s an American moment. It’s a chance for us to overcome anger and division that has hold us back of late for far too long. We can emerge from these crises. We can do what we’re best at doing, unite, work together. And it starts with the mayors. And I really mean that. It starts with all of you. I promise you. If I’m elected, you will have direct access to the White House. I want to thank you all because we need you to build back better. You are the foundation stone, not a joke. You’re the ones leading away. And what people don’t realize is over the last six years more young people are moving into cities than out of cities.
 There’s so many possibilities. We got to stop the hate and the division now, we got to stop pouring flames on the fire, we got to start talking straight to the American people. That’s what you all do. You do it every day. I want to make it clear to you, I’ve never been more optimistic and I’ve been doing this a long time about the prospects for this country than I am today. The blinders have been taken off the American people. They understand what’s going on now. They understand. They understand it’s about all of us. They want to get things done. And so it’s going to start with you. I promise you I’ll have your back. I mean that sincerely. Look in my record, I have, and I want to make sure that your ideas are the ones that are funneled up. They don’t have to go through a state legislature, go through a governor. They can go straight to the federal government, straight to me. I really mean it. So God bless you. May God protect our troops and thank you for what you do. Your job is too hard for me.
 Welcome to the nation’s Constitution Center. I had the great privilege of being a guest here. It’s an appropriate place to make the speech I’m about to make. I attended a mass earlier today and prayed for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and her family. The nation lost a heroine, an icon. They also lost a mother, a grandmother, and a matriarch. We know how hard that is, to watch a piece of your soul absorb the cruelty and the pain of the dreadful disease of cancer. I spoke to her daughter and her granddaughter last night, expressing my whole family, I mean, my whole family’s sorrow, particularly my grown granddaughters, one of whom was a student of Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s daughter at Columbia. They made clear to me, daughter and granddaughter, that until the very end, Justice Ginsburg displayed the character and courage we’d expect of her. They said she held their hands and gave them strength and purpose to carry on.
 It’s been noted that she passed away on Rosh Hashanah. By tradition, a person who dies during the Jewish new year is considered a soul of great righteousness. That was Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a righteous soul. It was my great honor, when I was in the Senate and Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, to preside over her confirmation hearings and strongly support her ascension to the Supreme Court bench. Justice Ginsburg achieved a standing few justices have or ever will. She became a presence in the lives of so many Americans and a part of our culture.
 I agree with what others have said, that she did as much to advance the constitutional rights, opportunities, and justice for women as Justice Marshall did for African Americans. Yes, there was humor and mentions of the Notorious RBG and her impressive exercise routines, but there was so much more. She was, to use an overused word, a trailblazer, a role model, a source of hope and a powerful voice for justice. She was proof, proof that courage and conviction and moral clarity can change not only the law, it can change our culture. It can change the world. And I believe in the days and months and years ahead, excuse me, she will continue to inspire millions of Americans all across this country. And together we can, and we will, continue to be a voice for justice in her name.
 Her granddaughter said yesterday and said publicly that her dying words were, “My most fervent wish is that I not be replaced until a new president is installed.” As a nation, we should heed her final call to us, not as a personal service to her, but as a service to the country, our country, at a crossroads. There’s so much at stake, the right to healthcare, clean air, clean water, the environment, equal pay for equal work, the rights of voters, immigrants, women, workers. And right now our country faces a choice, a choice about whether we will come back from the brink.
 That’s what I would like to talk with you about for a few minutes today. Within an hour of news of her passing, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said President Trump’s nominee to replace Justice Ginsburg will receive a vote in the Senate. Within an hour of her passing. The exact opposite of what he said when President Obama nominated Merrick Garland to replace Justice Scalia in 2016. At that time, Majority Leader McConnell made up a rule based on the fiction that I somehow believe there should be no nomination to the court in an election year. That’s ridiculous. The only rule I’ve ever followed relating to the Supreme Court nomination was the Constitution’s obligation for senators to provide their advice and their consent to a president’s judicial nominee.
 But he created a new rule, the McConnell rule. Absolutely no hearing, no vote for a nominee in an election year, period, no caveats, and many Republican senators agreed with him, including then Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Chuck Grassley of Iowa, including the current Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Lindsey Graham, of South Carolina, who at the time said, and I quote verbatim, here’s what he said. “I want you to use my words against me if there’s a Republican president in 2016 and a vacancy occurs in the last year of the first term. You can say, Lindsey Graham said, let’s let the next president, whoever it might be, make the nomination.” Continuing to quote, “And you could use my words against me, and you’d be absolutely right.” End of quote. That’s what Republicans said when Justice Scalia passed away about nine months before election day that year.
 Now, having lost Justice Ginsburg less than seven weeks before the election this year, after Americans have already begun to cast their vote. It’s estimated that up to 40% of Americans will have voted by October 1st, but at least 30%. Tens of millions. And you can’t unring the bell. Having made this their standard when it served their interests, they cannot just four years later change course when it doesn’t serve their ends. Look, I’m not being naive. I’m not speaking to President Trump, who will do whatever he wants. I’m not speaking to Mitch McConnell, who will do what he wants, and he does. I’m speaking to those Republicans out there, Senate Republicans, who know deep down what is right for the country and consistent with the Constitution, as I stand here in the Constitution Center, not just what’s best for their party.
 I’m speaking for millions of Americans out there who already have voted and continue to vote, and we’ll have many more voted by the time this process is finished. Millions of Americans who are voting because they know their healthcare hangs in the balance. In the middle of the worst global health crisis in living memory, Donald Trump is before the Supreme Court, trying to strip healthcare coverage away from tens of millions of families. This took away the peace of mind of more than 100 million Americans with preexisting conditions. If he succeeds, insurers could once again discriminate or drop coverage completely for people living with preexisting conditions, like asthma, diabetes, cancer, and so many other problems.
 And perhaps most cruelly of all, if Donald Trump has his way, the complications from COVID-19, which are well beyond what they should be, it’s estimated that 200 million people have died probably by the time I finish this talk, the complications of COVID-19, like lung scarring and heart damage, could become the next deniable preexisting condition for over six million Americans who’ve already contracted the disease.
 Millions of Americans are also voting because they don’t want nearly half a century of legal precedent to be overturned and lose the right to choose. Millions of Americans who are at risk of losing their right to vote. Millions of Dreamers who are at risk of being expelled from the only country they have ever known. Millions of workers. Union workers who are at risk of losing their right to collectively bargain. Millions of Americans who are demanding that their voices be heard, that equal justice be a guarantee for all, not just some. They know, we all know, what should happen now. The voters of this country should be heard. As I said, voting has already begun. By the time we get to the middle of October, there will be millions and millions and millions who have already voted. In just a few weeks, all votes in this nation will be heard. They’re the ones who the Constitution envisions should decide who has the power to make this appointment.
 This appointment isn’t about the past. It’s about the future, and the people of this nation, and the people of this nation are choosing their future right now, as they vote. To jam this nomination through the Senate is just an exercise in raw political power, and I don’t believe that the people of this nation will stand for it. President Trump has already made it clear, this is about power, pure and simple power. Whether the voters should make it clear on this issue and so many others, the power in this nation resides with them, the American people, the voters, and even if President Trump wants to put forward a name now, the Senate should not act until after the American people select their next president, their next Congress, their next Senate. If Donald Trump wins the election, then the Senate should move on his selection and weigh the nominee he chooses fairly.
 But if I win this election, President Trump’s nominee should be withdrawn, and as a new president I should be the one who nominates Justice Ginsburg’s successor, a nominee who should get a fair hearing in the Senate before a confirmation hearing, before a confirmation vote, I should say, after a confirmation hearing.
 We’re in the middle of a pandemic. Like I said, as I speak, we’re probably passing 200,000 deaths lost to this virus. Tens of millions of Americans are unemployed. Healthcare in this country hangs in the balance before the court. And now, in a raw political move, this president and the Republican leader have decided to jam a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court through the United States Senate. That’s the last thing we need at this moment. As I said, voters have already begun casting their votes in the millions. And in just a few weeks, we’re going to know who the voters of this nation have chosen as the next president. The United States Constitution was designed to give voters one chance, one chance to have their voice heard in who serves on the court. And by the way, there’s no court session between now and the end of this election.
 That moment is now for the voters to get a chance to be heard, and their voice should be heard. And I believe voters are going to make it clear. They’ll not stand for this abuse of power, this constitutional abuse. There’s no discussion about what happens if the Senate confirms on the eve of election or in a lame duck after Donald Trump loses. A successor to Justice Ginsburg, what happens? But that discussion assumes that we lose this effort to prevent the grave wrong that Trump and McConnell are pursuing here. I’m not going to assume failure at this point. I believe the voices of the American people should be heard and will be heard. This vote, this fight, this nomination will not be over until the Senate votes, if it does vote. Winning that vote, if it happens, is everything. Action and reaction, anger and more anger, sorrow and frustration at the way things are in this country now politically, that’s the cycle that Republican senators will continue to perpetuate if they go down this dangerous path that they put us on.
 We need to deescalate, not escalate. That’s why I appeal to those few Senate Republicans, the handful who really will decide what happens. Please, follow your conscience. Don’t vote to confirm anyone nominated under the circumstances President Trump and Senator McConnell have created. Don’t go there. Uphold your constitutional duty, your conscience. Let the people speak. Cool the flames that have been engulfing our country. We can’t keep rewriting history, scrambling norms, ignoring our cherished system of checks and balances. That includes this whole business of releasing a list of potential nominees that I would put forward. They’re now saying, after Ruth Bader Ginsburg passed away, they said, “Biden should release his list.” It’s no wonder the Trump campaign asked that I release the list only after she passed away. It’s a game for them. It’s a play to [inaudible 00:19:44] up emotions and anger.
 There’s a reason why no presidential candidate, other than Donald Trump, has ever done such a thing. First, putting a judge’s name on a list like that could influence that person’s decision making as a judge, and that would be wrong, or at least create the perception that it would have influence. Second, anyone put on a list like that under these circumstances will be subject to unrelenting political attacks. Because any nominee I would select would not get a hearing until 2021 at the earliest, she would endure those attacks for months on end, without being able to defend herself. Thirdly, and finally, perhaps most importantly, if I win, I’ll make my choice for the Supreme Court not based on a partisan election campaign, but on what prior presidents have done, Republican and Democrats, and I’ve served with many of them.
 Only after consulting Democrats and Republicans in the United States Senate and seeking their advice and asking for the consent, it says, “Advice and consent of the Senate,” the president is the person who gets to name someone, propose. The Senate deposes. As everyone knows, I made it clear that my first choice for the Supreme Court will make history as the first African American woman justice. But I’ll consult with senators in both parties about that pick, as well as the legal and civil leaders in our country. In the end, the choice will be mine and mine alone, but I will consult. It will be the product of a process that restores our finest traditions, not the extension of one that’s torn this country apart the last years.
 So let me conclude with this. As I’ve said in this campaign, we’re in the battle for the soul of this country. We face historic crises, once in a generation pandemic, a devastating economic recession, the rise of white supremacy that the FBI directors warned us against, unseen since the sixties, and a reckoning on race that’s long overdue, a challenging climate, a changing climate that is ravaging our nation and the world as we speak. Supreme Court decisions will touch every part of these crises, every part of our lives and our future. The last thing we need is to add a constitutional crisis that plunges us deeper into the abyss, deeper into the darkness.
 If we go down this path, I predict it will cause irreversible damage. The infection this president has unleashed on our democracy can be fatal. Enough. Enough. Enough. We must come together as a nation. Democrats, Republicans, independents, liberals, conservatives, everybody. I’m not saying we have to agree on everything, but we have to reason our way through what ails us as citizens, voters, public service. That’s the guidebook called the Constitution. We have to act in good faith, in mutual goodwill, in the spirit of conciliation, not confrontation.
 This nation will continue to be inspired by Ruth Bader Ginsburg, but we should not only be inspired by her, we should be guided by her, by her willingness to listen to those with whom she disagreed, to respect other points of view. Famously, Justice Ginsburg got along well with some of the most conservative justices on the court. And she did it without compromising her principles, clouding her moral clarity, or losing her core principles. If she can do this, so can we. How we talk to one another matters, how we treat one another matters, respecting others matters. Justice Ginsburg proved it’s important to have a spine of steel, but also important to have an open hand, not a clenched fist, to those with whom we disagree.
 This nation needs to come together. I’ve said it many times in this election. We are the United States of America. There’s nothing we cannot overcome. There’s nothing we cannot do, if we do it together. Donald Trump seems to want to divide this nation between red states and blue states, between representing those states that vote for him and ignoring those who don’t. I do not. I cannot, I will not be that president. I’ll be a president for the whole country, for those who vote for me and those who vote against me. We need to rise in this moment for the sake of the country we love so dearly, indeed for its very soul. May God bless the United States of America. May God protect our troops. And may God bless Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Thank you so much.
 Fracking has to continue because we need a transition. We’re going to get to net zero emissions by 2050, and we’ll get to net zero power admissions by 2035, but there’s no rationale to eliminate right now fracking, number one. Number two, those jobs that are out there, whether it’s a IBEW worker or whether it’s an iron worker or the steel worker, what I’m proposing is that, when Trump thinks about global warming, he thinks hoax. When I think of global warming, I think jobs.
 What I’m going to make sure we do is we can transition in a way, for example, we’re going to build 500… Reason why all these unions have endorsed me is that they know my position, that I’m going to make sure that we have 500,000 charging stations on our highways so we can own the electric car market creating a million jobs and we can lead the world, in Detroit, we can lead the world and making sure we move to electric vehicles.
 As President of the United States, I’ll have one of the largest suites. We spend $600 billion a year, federal money, for federal contracts. I got to make sure that all those contracts are all products made in America, including the chain that provides for every one of those products. I’m going to do away with the tax break that the president gave people who send jobs abroad to make sure that if you, in fact, have a contract, with taxpayers’ money, you must use American products, you must buy American products, and you must not be in a position where you’re exporting. We have over 50% more people moving jobs overseas as a consequence of these contracts. So it’s all backwards. This is going to provide a lot of good-paying jobs for people in the trades.
 I have laid out in detail what I’ll do, and I’m going to see to it that I said, we get to a net zero power grid by 2035, so no president can turn around and change what we’re doing. We’re going to get to net zero emissions by the year 2050. Before, in the meantime, there’s so much we can do and still make it better for people. We’re going to invest in a close to a trillion dollars over time, in the near time, for infrastructure. We’re going to build green infrastructure.
 For example, I propose we spend $100 billion on making sure our schools have the right ventilation, making sure schools in fact are safe, making sure schools are in a position where they are not generating the use of more energy. We’re going to build back buildings that, in fact, are going to provide for… We’re going to vastly cut down on the amount of fossil fuels that we use.
 No, I don’t think it’s too much. I have my own deal. I’ve laid it out in great detail. The democratic party’s adopted it as a platform. It requires for us to move in a direction to fundamentally change the way in which we deal with the environment. I’m the guy that ran the Recovery Act, which invested over $90 billion in bringing down the cost of renewable energy, so it’s now more competitive than it is for coal or for oil or for gas. There’s no reason why we can’t transition in an orderly way, making sure… By the way, before I actually went through the whole thing, I sat down with every one of the major unions, they all endorse me, and I said, “Look, this is what it’s going to mean for you.” It’s not only good for the environment. It’s going to provide jobs and you’re not going to lose your jobs. You’re not going to lose your jobs. Not producing the same energy, producing a different kind of energy.
 I want to thank Carnegie Mellon for providing this space and all the promise it holds for future jobs in the high tech world. In recent days, we’ve had a lot of talk about who’s going where and how I’ve decided to come to Pittsburgh to talk a little bit about what’s going on right now. In the early days of World War II, Franklin Roosevelt told the country, and I quote, “The news is going to get worse and worse before it gets better and better. And the American people deserve to have it straight from the shoulder.” Straight from the shoulder. The job of a president is to tell it straight from the shoulder, tell the truth, to be candid, to face facts, to lead, not to insight. That’s why I’m speaking to you today. The incumbant president is incapable of telling us the truth, incapable of facing the facts and incapable of healing. He doesn’t want to shed light, he wants to generate heat and he’s stroking violence in our cities.
 This is a tragic fact of the matter, how he’s dealing with this perilous hour in our nation. And now we have to stand against violence in every form it takes. Violence we’ve seen again and again and again, of unwarranted police shooting, excessive force, seven bullets in the back of Jacob Blake. Knee on the neck of George Floyd, killing of Breonna Taylor in her own apartment, violence of extremists and opportunists, right wing militias… And to derail any hope and support for progress, the senseless violence of looting and burning and destruction of property. I want to make it absolutely clear, so I’m going to be very clear about all of this, rioting is not protesting. Looting is not protesting. Setting fires is not protesting. None of this is protesting. It’s lawlessness, plain and simple. And those who do it should be prosecuted. Violence will not bring change, it will only bring destruction. It’s wrong in every way. It divides instead of unites, destroys businesses, only hurts the working families that serve the community. It makes things worse across the board, not better.
 It’s not what Dr. King or John Lewis taught and it must end. Fires are burning and we have a president who fans the flames rather than fighting the flames. But we must not burn, we have to build. This president, long ago, forfeited any moral leadership in this country. He can’t stop the violence because for years he’s fomented it. He may believe mouthing the words law and order makes him strong. But his failure to call on his own supporters to stop acting as an armed militia in this country shows how weak he is. Does anyone believe there’ll be less violence in America if Donald Trump is reelected?
 We need justice in America. We need safety in America. We’re facing multiple crises. Crises that under Donald Trump have kept multiplying. COVID, economic devastation, unwarranted police violence, [inaudible 00:03:48] white nationalists, a reckoning on race, declining faith in the birth of the right American future. There’s no reason why we can’t just do so much more than we’re doing. The common threat, the incumbent president who makes things worse, not better, an incumbent president who sows chaos rather than providing order. An incumbent president who fails in the basic duty of the job, which is to advance the truth that all of us know, that we’re all born with the right to life, Liberty, and pursuit of happiness. That’s right. All of us, the moms and dads in Scranton, where I grew up, who have worked and scraped for everything they’ve ever gotten in life.
 The auto worker in Michigan, who still makes the best automobile in the world, single mom in Ohio, working three jobs just to stay afloat who’ll do anything for her child. Retired veteran in Florida who gave everything he had to this country. And now just wants us to honor the promises made to him. [inaudible 00:04:58] salesperson who just lost their job. A store closing after 194 years in business. Nurses and doctors in Wisconsin who’ve seen so much sickness, so much death in the past six months. And they wonder how much more can they take, but still they muster up the courage to take care of those patients in this pandemic while risking their own lives. Researchers in Minnesota who woke up this morning determined to find a breakthrough in treating cancer and who’ll do the same thing tomorrow and the day after and the day after, because she’ll never give up. White, Black, Latino, Asian American, Native Americans, everybody, I’m in this campaign for you. No matter your color, no matter your zip code, no matter your politics.
 When I think of the presidency, I don’t think about myself. It isn’t about my brand. It’s about you, the American people. We can do better and we have to do better. I promise you this. We will do better. The road back begins now in this campaign. You know me, you know my heart, you know my story, my family story. Ask yourself, do I look like a radical socialist with a soft spot for rioters? Really? I want a safe America, safe from COVID, safe from crime and looting, safe from racially motivated violence, safe from bad cops. Let me be crystal clear, safe from four more years of Donald Trump. I look at this violence and I see lives and communities and the dreams of small businesses being destroyed and the opportunity for real progress on issues of race and police reform and justice being put to the test. Donald Trump looks at this violence and he sees a political lifeline. Having failed to protect this nation from the virus that has killed more than 180,000 Americans so far, Trump posts an all caps tweet, screaming, “Law and order,” to save his campaign.
 One of his closest political advisers in the White House doesn’t even bother to speak in code, just comes out and she says it. “The more chaos, violence, the better it is for Trump’s reelection.” Just think about that. This is a sitting president of the United States of America. He’s supposed to be protecting this country, but instead he’s rooting for chaos and violence. The simple truth is Donald Trump failed to protect America. So now he’s trying to scare America. Since Donald Trump and Mike Prince can’t run on their record that has seen more American death to a virus, this virus, then the nation suffered in every war since Korea combined, since they can’t run on their economy that has seen more people lose their jobs than any time since the Great Depression, since they can’t run on a simple proposition of sending our children safely back to school, since they have no agenda or vision for a second term, Trump and Pence are running on this.
 And I find it fascinating. “You won’t be safe in Joe Biden’s America.” And what’s their proof? The violence we’re seeing in Donald Trump’s America. These are not images of some imagined Joe Biden America in the future. These are images of Donald Trump’s America today. He keeps telling you if only he was president, it wouldn’t happen. If he was president. He keeps telling us that he was president you’d feel safe. Well he is president. Whether he knows it or not, and it is happening, it’s getting worse. And you know why? Because Donald Trump adds fuel to every fire because he refuses to even acknowledge that there’s a racial justice problem in America because he won’t stand up to any form of violence. He’s got no problem with right-wing militia, white supremacists, and vigilantes with assault weapons often better armed than the police. Often in the middle of the violence at the protestors and aiming it there. And because tens of millions of Americans simply don’t trust this president to respect their rights, to hear their concerns or to protect them. It doesn’t have to be this way.
 When President Obama and I were in the White House, we had to defend federal property. We did it. We didn’t see it. You didn’t see us whipping up fears around the deployment of secret federal troops. We just did our job and the federal property was protected. When president Obama and I were in office, we didn’t look at cities as Democratic or Republican run. These are American cities. But Trump doesn’t seem himself as president for all of America. Frankly, I believe if I were president today, the country would be safer and we’d be seeing a lot less violence, and here’s why. I have said we must address the issue of racial injustice. I’ve personally spoken to George Floyd’s family, and to Jacob Blake’s family. I know their pain. And so do you. I know the justice they seek and so do you. They’ve told us, “None of this violence respects or honors George or Jacob.” I believe it can bring these folks fighting for racial justice to the table.
 I’ve worked with police in this country for many years. I know most cops are good, decent people. I know how they risk their lives every time they put that shield on and go out the door. I’m confident I can bring the police to the table as well. I’d make sure every mayor and governor had the support they needed from the federal government. But I wouldn’t be looking to use the United States military against our own people. If I were president, my language would be less divisive, I’d be looking to lower the temperature in this country, not raise it. I’d be looking to unite the nation. But look, if Donald Trump wants to ask the question, “Who will keep you safer as president?” Let’s answer that question. First, some simple facts. When I was vice president, violent crime fell 15% in this country. We did it without chaos and disorder.
 And yes, we did it with democratic mayors in most of the major cities in this country. The murder right now is up 26% across the nation this year under Donald Trump. Do you really feel safer under Donald Trump? COVID has taken this year, just since the outbreak, has taken more than 100… Look, the lives, when you think about it, more lives this year than any other year for the past 100 years. More than 180,000 lives in just six months, an average of 1,000 people dying every day in the month of August. Do you really feel safe under Donald Trump? Mr. Trump, you want to talk about fear? Do you know what people are afraid of in America? Afraid they’re going to get COVID. They’re afraid they’re going to get sick and die. And that is in no small part because of you. We’re now on track to more than 200,000 deaths in this country due to COVID. More than 100,000 seniors have lost their lives to the virus.
 More cops have died from COVID this year than have been killed on patrol. Nearly one in six small businesses have closed in this country today. Do oyu really feel safer under Trump? What about Trump’s plan to destroy the Affordable Care Act, and with it, the protections for preexisting conditions that impacts more than 100 million Americans? Does that make you feel safer? Or how about Trump’s plan to defund social security? The social security administration’s chief actuary just released a report saying that if a plan like the one Trump is proposing goes into effect, the social security trust fund would be, and I quote, “Permanently depleted by the middle of calendar year 2023, with no ability to pay benefits thereafter.” To put it plainly, Trump’s plan with wipe out social security period. Do you feel safer and more secure now? The fear that reigns under this president doesn’t stop at our shores. The Kremlin has put bounties on the heads of American soldiers.
 And instead of telling Vladimir Putin that there’d be no putting up with this, that there’d be a heavy price to pay if they dare touch an American soldier, this president doesn’t even bring up the subject in his multiple phone calls with Putin. It’s been reported that Russian forces just attacked American troops in Syria, injuring our service members. Did you hear the president say a single word? Did he lift one finger? Never before has an American president played such a subservient role to a Russian leader. It’s not only dangerous, it’s humiliating and embarrassing for the rest of the world to see, it weakens us. Not even American troops can feel safer under Trump. Donald Trump’s role as a bystander in his own presidency extends to the economic plan and pain. The plan he doesn’t have and the pain being felt by millions of Americans. He said this week, and I quote, “You better vote for me, or you’re going to have the greatest depression you’ve ever seen.” Does he not understand and see the tens of millions of people who’ve had to file for unemployment this year so far?
 The people who won’t be able to make next month’s rent payment? The people who lost wages or the cost of groceries have gone up dramatically? President Obama and I stopped a depression in 2009. We took a bad economy that was falling and turned it around. Trump took a good economy and drove it back into the ditch. Through his failure to get COVID under control, his failure to pull together the leaders in Congress, his failure to deliver real relief to working people, has made our country’s economic situation so much worse, so much worse than it had to be. We talk about safety and security. We should talk about basic security of being able to look your child in the eye and tell them, “Everything’s going to be okay. Don’t worry, honey. We’re not going to lose our home. We’re going to be able to put food on the table. It’s going to be okay.”
 It’s the job of the president. I’ve laid out an agenda for economic recovery that will restore a sense of security for working families. We won’t just build things back the way they were before. We’re going to build them back better with good paying jobs. Building our nation’s roads, bridges, solar rays, windmills with investments in our healthcare and childcare workers so they get the pay and dignity they deserve while easing the financial burdens on millions of families with a clean energy strategy that has a place for the energy workers right here in Western Pennsylvania. I am not banning fracking. Let me say that again. I am not banning fracking. No matter how many times Donald Trump lies about me, the future, that’s what this is all about. We hear Donald Trump’s self centered rants and riffs, but the voice of Americans should be heard. And one you should listen to is Julia Jackson, the mother of Jacob Blake. Hers is a voice of courage, character and wisdom.
 Looking at the damage that has been done in her city, she said, “The violence and destruction doesn’t reflect my son or my family.” These are the words of a mom, a mother whose son had just been shot seven times in front of his children, badly injured, paralyzed, perhaps permanently. And even as she seeks justice for her son, she’s pleading for an end to the violence and for this nation to heal. She said she was praying for her son. Then she said something to me that that surprised me. She said she was praying for all police officers. She said was already been praying for America even before her son was shot. She’s publicly asked all of us to examine our hearts, citizens, elected officials, the police, all of us. And then she said, this. “We need healing. More than anything, that’s what we need to do as a nation. We need to heal.”
 Our current president wants you to live in fear, he advertises himself as a figure of order. He isn’t, and he’s not been part of the solution thus far. He’s part of the problem. The problem, I, as president, will give you my all resolve to stop. I’ll deal with the virus, I’ll deal with the economic crisis, and I’ll work to bring a quality and opportunity to everyone. We’ve arrived at a moment in this campaign, we all know, including the press in front of me, knew we’d get to. The moment when Donald Trump would be so desperate, he’d do anything to hold onto power. Donald Trump has been a toxic presence in our nation for four years. Poisoning how we talk to one another, poisoning how we treat one another, poisoning the values this nation has always held dear, poisoning our very democracy. Now, in just a little over 60 days, we have a decision to make. Will we rid ourselves of this toxin or will we make it a permanent part of our nation’s character?
 As Americans, I’m confident we believe in honesty and decency, treating everyone with dignity and respect, giving everyone a fair shot, leaving no one behind, giving hate no safe harbor, and demonizing no one. We, up to now, always recognize there’s something bigger than ourselves, that’s what we’re about. Trump doesn’t seem to believe in any of that. Look, I’ve said it before and I’ll keep saying it, America is an idea. It’s the most powerful idea in the history of the world. And I believe it beats in the hearts of the people of this country. All men and women are created equal and they deserve to be treated equally.
 Trump has sought to remake this nation in his image. Selfish, angry, dark, and divisive. This is not who we are. At her best, america’s always been, and if I have anything to do it, it will be again, generous, confident, an optimistic nation full of hope and resolve. Donald Trump is determined to instill fear in America. That’s what his entire campaign for the president has come down to, fear. But I believe Americans are stronger than that. I believe we’ll be guided by the words of Pope John Paul II, words drawn from the scriptures. Be not afraid, be not afraid. Fear never builds the future, but hope does. And building the future is what America does, what we’ve always done. In fact, it’s what we have done best and continue to do best. This is the United States of America. There’s not a single thing beyond our capacity when we decide to do it together. So let’s get together. I want to thank you all. May God bless you, and may God protect our troops.
 Please welcome Vice President Joe Biden and Senator Kamala Harris.
 Hello hello. Thanks for being here. I wish we were able to talk to the folks outside but we’re keeping our social distancing and playing by the rules. Good afternoon everyone. To me and to Kamala, this is an exciting day. It’s a great day for our campaign and it’s a great day for America in my view. Over the past several weeks I have had the incredible privilege of meeting and spending a good deal of time with a group of talented women leaders, all of whom are qualified to be president. With each one, the more I learned about them, the more I talked to them, the more impressed I was even though I knew them before. I want to thank each and every one of them for being part of this process and I look forward to working with them as we rebuild this country to get elected and once we are elected God willing.
 I approached this with a seriousness of purpose and of mind because this is a serious moment for our nation. We’re at one of those inflection points, you’ve heard me say that before, in our history. A life-changing election for this nation and the choice, the choice we make this November is going to decide the future of America for a very, very long time and I had a great choice. Great opportunities. I had a great choice but I have no doubt that I picked the right person to join me as the next Vice President of the United States of America and that’s Senator Kamala Harris. You know, it seems Americans all across this nation, at least at the outset here agree with me. Yesterday we had our best grassroots fundraising day of the campaign, more than double our previous record, and in doing so, we set a single day record for online political fundraising and I think I know why. So I hope that you’ll join us as well, those of you listening today. Go to joebiden.com today, $5.00, $10.00, whatever.
 Kamala, as you all know is smart, she’s tough, she’s experienced, she’s a proven fighter for the backbone of this country, the middle class, for all those who are struggling to get into the middle class. Kamala knows how to govern. She knows how to make the hard calls. She’s ready to do this job on Day One and we’re both ready to get to work, rebuilding this nation and building it better. As attorney general of the largest state in the country, Kamala took on the big banks over mortgage fraud and won. Took on big oil that wanted to pollute without consequences. She was a pioneer in marriage equality and tackled the gun lobby. You know, we’ve all watched her in the United States Senate go toe to toe with Trump officials trying to hide the truth, asking the tough questions that needed to be asked and not stopping until she got an answer and when none was forthcoming it was obvious what the answer was.
 As a member of the Intelligence Committee and the Judiciary Committee, she’s been the center, in the middle of the most critical national security challenges our country faces. Well aware, well aware of all the threats to this nation and ready to respond to them. As a child of immigrants, she knows personally how immigrant families enrich our country as well as the challenges of what it means to grow up black and Indian-American in the United States of America. Her story is America’s story, different from mine in many particulars, but also not so different in the essentials. She has worked hard, she has never backed down from a challenge, and she has earned each and every of the accolades and achievements that she has gained. Many of them often in the face of obstacles that others put in her way but never quit, and this morning, all across the nation, little girls woke up, especially little black and brown girls, who so often feel overlooked and undervalued in their communities, but today, today just maybe, they’re seeing themselves for the first time in a new way, as the stuff of presidents and vice presidents.
 In her campaign in the primary, Kamala often talked about what she referred to as the 3:00 a.m. agenda, about moms and dads awake late at night in their kitchens, worried, scared, uncertain about how they were going to take care of their families, about how they were going to pay the bills, about how they were going to make it, simply make it. Growing up in Scranton and Claymont, Delaware, I saw that struggle with my family as well. Kamala saw it with hers as well and millions of Americans are living that struggle as we speak, especially in this moment of crisis, especially with so many jobs lost. Kamala and I both know that all folks are looking for as my dad would say is an even shot, just give me a shot, a fair shot, a shot at making it and it will be the work of our administration to make sure they get a fair shot.
 Working families need someone on their side in this nation because they certainly don’t have anyone in the president now on their side. That’s going to change in a Biden-Harris administration. It’s going to be gratifying to see the strong, enthusiastic reaction to Senator Harris as our next vice president. It comes from people all over the country, it’s already occurring. All over the country, all ideological views, all backgrounds. Events of course, we are predictable, some of them. It comes from all over except of course from Donald Trump’s White House and his allies. You all knew it was coming. You could have set your watches to it. Donald Trump has already started his attacks, calling Kamala “nasty”, whining about how she is “mean” to his appointees. It’s no surprise because whining is what Donald Trump does best, better than any president in American history.
 Is anyone surprised Donald Trump has a problem with a strong woman or strong women across the board? We know that more is to come, so let’s be clear. If you’re a working person, worried about whether or not you have a job to go to, whether or not you’ll be able to pay your mortgage, pay your rent, worried about the poison in the air you breathe, the water you drink, worried about your civil rights, even your basic right to dignity which is under attack with this administration, Kamala Harris has had your back and now we have to have her back. She’s going to stand with me in this campaign and all of us are going to stand up for her. On January 20, 2021, we’re all going to watch Senator Harris raise her right hand and swear the oath of office as the first woman ever to serve in the second highest office in America in this land, and then we’re going to get to work, fixing the mess that President Trump and Vice President Pence have created, both at home and abroad through four years of mismanagement and coddling of terrorists and thugs around the world. Not only will America dig itself out of this hole they put us in, we’re going to build. We’re going to build back and we’re going to build back better. We have a public health crisis. While he’s in court trying to do away with health care, with more than five million reported infections, 165,000 people dead and climbing as a consequence of COVID-19 and still, months later, no real leadership or plan from the President of the United States how to get this pandemic under control. No real help for the states and local governments trying to fill the vacuum of leadership from the White House. No real help for children and educators, for small businesses and frontline workers, they’re the ones that are holding our country together. Instead, he’s issuing executive orders and making promises that in the end will defund the Social Security system while insisting that this virus will disappear.
 The Joe Biden and Kamala Harris administration will have a comprehensive plan to meet the challenge of COVID-19 and turn the corner on this pandemic. Masking, clear science-based guidance, dramatically scaling up testing, getting states and local governments the resources they need to open the schools and businesses safely. We can do this. We just need a president and vice president willing to lead and take responsibility. Not as this president says, “It’s not my fault. The governor should thank me more.” As that old saying goes, give me a break. We have an economic crisis and more than 16 million Americans, 16 million, still out of work. Donald Trump is on track to break another record. On track to leave office with the worst jobs records of any American president in modern history, but instead of doing the hard work, of meeting face to face with congressional leaders, Democrats and Republicans in the White House like every other president has done in a crisis, to get Americans the relief they need and deserve, Donald Trump is on the golf course. If I told you this three years ago you’d look at me like I was being crazy. He hasn’t even met with the leadership. He doesn’t have time it appears.
 We have a climate crisis that Donald Trump refuses to even acknowledge. When he thinks about climate change, all we hear is the word hoax. A Biden-Harris administration is going to meet the climate crisis, protect the health of the American public. Along the way, we’re going to deliver one word, jobs. Good paying jobs. We have a racial justice crisis. Donald Trump seeks only to inflame it with his politics of racist rhetoric and appeals to division. Today’s not only the day I’m proud to introduce Senator Kamala Harris as the vice presidential nominee of the Democratic Party. It’s also the third anniversary of that terrible day in Charlottesville. Remember? Remember what it felt like to see those neo-Nazis, close your eyes, and those Klansmen, white supremacists, coming
 … close your eyes, and those Klansmen, white supremacists, coming out of fields, carrying lighted torches, faces contorted, bulging veins, pouring into the streets of a historic American city, spewing the same antisemitic bile we heard in Hitler’s Germany in the ’30s. Remember how it felt to see a violent clash ensue between those celebrating hate and those standing against it? It was a wake up call for all of us as a country. For me, it was a call to action. My father used to say, silence is complicity, not original to him, but he believed it. At that moment, I knew I couldn’t stand by and let Donald Trump, a man who went on to say when asked about what he thought he said, there were very fine people on both sides, “Very fine people on both sides.” No president of the United States of America has ever said anything like that, see him continuing to attack everything that makes America America. I knew we were in the battle for the soul of the nation. That’s when I decided to run. I’m proud now to have Senator Harris at my side in that battle because she shares with the same intensity I do, for she’s someone who knows what’s at stake.
 The question is for all Americans to answer, who are we as a nation? What do we stand for? And most importantly, what do we want to be? Someone who knows that the future of this country is limited only by the barriers we place on our own imaginations because there’s nothing Americans cannot achieve what we put our minds to it and we do it together.
 One of the reasons I chose Kamala is because we both believe that we can define America simply in one word, possibilities. Possibilities. Let me say it again, possibilities. That’s America. That’s what sets this nation apart, is that everyone, everyone, the ability for everyone, and we mean everyone, to go as far and dream as big as hard work and their God-given ability will take them.
 When I agreed to serve as President Obama’s running mate, he asked me a number of questions, as I’ve asked Kamala, but the most important was he asked me, what I wanted most importantly. I told him I wanted to be the last person in the room before he made important decisions. That’s what I asked Kamala, I asked Kamala to be the last voice in the room, to always tell me the truth, which she will, challenge my assumptions if she disagrees, ask the hard questions because that’s the way we make the best decisions for the American people. I got a chance to spend some time at my home today with Kamala and Doug, and I want to thank them. I thanked them then, but thank them publicly for agreeing to join and take this journey with Jill and me. Doug, you’re going to have to learn what it means to be a barrier breaker yourself in this job you’re about to take on, America’s first Second Gentlemen. And although they’re not with us here today, I want to thank Ella and Cole as well.
 I had a chance to speak to Doug’s mom and dad, and Ella and Cole, and we’re going to get our kids together to let them know what’s coming. My grandchildren are about the age of their children. I got to speak to them. My campaign has always been a family affair, every campaign I’ve run. So I’ve got some news for you, you’re all honorary Bidens. And here’s the best part, Kamala, you’ve been an honorary Biden for quite some time.
 I came first to know who Kamala was through our son, Beau Biden. They were friends. They served as attorneys general at the same time. They took on the same big fights together, Kamala in California, Beau here in Delaware. Big fights that helped change the entire country. I know how much Beau respected Kamala and her work, and that mattered a lot to me, to be honest with you, as I made this decision. So now we need to get to work, pulling this nation out of these crises we find ourselves in, getting our economy back on track, uniting this nation, and yes, winning the battle for the soul of America. My fellow Americans, now let me introduce to you for the first time, your next vice president of the United States, Kamala Harris. Kamala, the floor is yours.
 Thank you.
 It’s great to be here in Michigan and with the United auto workers. As they say, in parts of my state, I got brung up on General Motors. My father ran a General Motors agency. He didn’t own it, but he ran it and cars or cars or cars. By the way, I still have my ’67 Corvette that’s new. It was new. I still keep that, but I got to tell you, I’m waiting for that electric one you just made that goes 210 miles an hour, but that’s a different story.
 Look, earlier this week and the reason we’re a little bit late here, we found as I was getting off the plane, the press asked me a legitimate question that I did not have the background on because it occurred on the plane. Earlier this week, we celebrated Labor Day. And here in the heart of the American automobile industry, we never forget everything that we owe the unions. And unions, as you’ve heard me say many times, built this country. Unions built the economy. The economic engine has driven American manufacturing dynamism. And literally in the case of the auto workers, you’re the ones that did it.
 So I want to thank you again, UAW region one, for hosting me today. And it’s great to see Senator Stabenow. My good friend, Debbie Stabenow. Got a chance to spend a little time with the governor, but Senator Stabenow and I worked together on an awful lot of matters over the years in the United States Senate. She was a great partner to me when I was vice president and we worked in lockstep to get the people in Michigan back on their feet. We’re joined by one of the best and brightest and hardest working governors around, my friend, Gretchen Whitmer.
 And if you’re wondering what responsible strong executive leadership looks like in COVID-19, just look at this executive right here. Governor, you’ve done an incredible job steering the people of Michigan through a turbulent time. Much of it is brought on by Donald Trump’s lack of leadership. You’ve been rock solid, governor. You’ve listened to the experts and you’ve led with science and you put the needs of the people, who are hurting first, helping them get through this crisis.
 Meanwhile, on the day that we hit 190,000 dead in the United States, because of COVID-19, we just learned from the Washington Post columnist Bob Woodward that the president of the United States has admitted on tape in February he knew about COVID-19 that had passed through the air. He knew how deadly it was. It was much more deadly than the flu. He knew and purposely played it down. Worse, he lied to the American people.
 He knowingly and willingly lied about the threaded pose to the country for months. He had the information. He knew how dangerous it was. Now, while this deadly disease ripped through our nation, he failed to do his job on purpose. It was a life and death betrayal of the American people. Experts say that if he had acted just one week sooner, 36,000 people would have been saved. If he acted two weeks sooner, back in March, 54,000 lives would have been spared in March and April alone. His failure has not only costs lives. He sent our economy in a tailspin. It costs millions more in American livelihoods. This is a recession created by Donald Trump’s negligence. And he is unfit for this job as a consequence of it. How many schools aren’t open right now? How many kids are starting a new school year the same way they ended the last one at home?
 How many parents feel abandoned and overwhelmed? How many frontline workers are exhausted and pushed to the limits? And how many families are missing loved ones at their dinner table tonight because of his failures? It’s beyond despicable. It’s a dereliction of duty. It’s a disgrace. We’re going to hear a lot more about this. I’m sure, not just from me, but from the news media and a lot of others, but I want to ask you one simple question. What’s the value of a promise? What’s it worth? What’s the worth of a woman or man’s word, of a president’s word, if it’s not matched with action?
 In 2016, then candidate Trump came here to Warren just a few days before the election. Here’s what he said. He said, “If I’m elected, you won’t lose one plant. You have plants coming into this country. You’re going to have jobs again. You won’t lose one plant. I promise you. I promise you.” That’s what he said. Donald Trump makes a lot of promises. He promised that he alone could stop the off shoring of jobs. He promised he bring back jobs, stop companies from leaving. He could do what, “Nobody else could do it, but him.” Nut he promised it has administration would enforce every last buying American provision on behalf of the American people. And what makes his wild claims and hopes, he now hopes we don’t notice what he said or won’t remember. And when he does follow through or doesn’t do with follow through the exact opposite, he’s hoping we just have poor memories.
 He doesn’t give us much credit, but the American people are smart, honest, decent, and they’re hard working. And we expect our president to be straight with us, to do what he or she says they’re going to do. So let’s look at the reality of Donald Trump’s economy and what exactly his promise to the American people and workers are worth. He’s on track to be the first president since Herbert Hoover in the Great Depression to see the number of jobs in our economy go down, not up while being president. Our economy’s down 4.7 million jobs since he took office, 4.7.
 Even before President Trump’s failed response to COVID-19 crashed through our economy, his reckless and chaotic trade policy had thrown American manufacturing into recession. It was already contracting in 2019, even when COVID-19 hit, before it hit. Trump was creating an average of 500,000 jobs fewer per year than the last three years when President Obama and I were an office. When the GM transmission plant here in Warren close last year, I bet the workers around weren’t all that comforted by Trump’s empty promises.
 Under Donald Trump, Michigan lost auto jobs, even before COVID did. And what about off shoring? Has Trump delivered on stopping companies from shipping jobs overseas, American jobs? You already know the answer. Of course not. The rate of offshoring by federal contractors, there are people that get federal dollars from the federal government to do things. The off shoring, big companies being paid by US Taxpayers has doubled, doubled under Trump. Those federal contracts with your tax dollars. They’ve doubled the number that had been off shored.
 He invited companies to the White House to make what he called the pledge to American workers. He couldn’t even keep those firms from outsourcing. Many were given lucrative federal contracts, but then some of them turned around and shipped 7,000 jobs overseas. Under President Trump, US trade deficit has grown. It’s hit an all time high. Let me say that again. US trade deficit is at an all time high under Trump in the last three years.
 President Trump’s answered all this as the same as he’s answered everything. Corporate tax giveaways that actually ward off shoring. You heard me right. Giveaways that reward offshoring. If you offshore, you get more tax breaks. His 2017 tax bill slashed taxes on companies that sent production and jobs overseas. Those corporations then make huge profits by shipping these foreign made products back to the United States to sell to American consumers. And no industry has taken a greater advantage of Trump’s offshoring tax loopholes than the pharmaceutical industry.
 Big pharma lobbied Trump for a handout. That’s exactly what they got from him. US pharma is building factories overseas instead of the United States, skipping out on having to pay US taxes and then sending those same foreign made drugs back to American consumers, all while raising their prices on prescription drugs that union families and working people have to rely on. And in the process by the way, he’s trying to do away with all healthcare in America.
 During a pandemic, we’re seeing not only the inequity of this policy, but the enormous vulnerability that this creates for our own health security. And our security requires us to have supply chains of the necessary drugs based here, not overseas. Not overseas in times of crisis.
 And what about Trump’s commitment to buy American? Like the rest of President Trump’s promise it has nothing to do with reality. It’s all a bunch of hot air. In fact, contracts awarded by US governments to foreign companies using American tax dollars went up 30% since he’s been president. So to recap, one, Trump hasn’t stopped companies from closing plants and sending jobs overseas. Two, he’s rewarded companies that have cut jobs and failed to invest here at home with billions of dollars in tax breaks. And three, he’s awarding more and more federal contracts to foreign companies. President Trump has broken just about every promise he’s ever made to the American worker. And he’s failed. He’s failed our economy and our country.
 But look, would you really expect anything different from this guy? From someone who called those of you and those who are serving in uniform, who have given their lives to the country losers and suckers? Let me tell you something. My son Beau is an assistant US attorney. He volunteered to go to Kosovo to help them set up a government in the middle of the war. I know I’m being proud here, but he’s the only foreigner has a monument that they raised and built in service to him, thanking him for what he did. My son also then as attorney general volunteered to go to Iraq for one year. He wasn’t a loser or a sucker. No one who served this nation has been a loser or a sucker. They’re all heroes. Or would you expect anything different than someone who could stand next to a father of a fallen soldier and say at a cemetery and say, “I don’t get it. What was in it for them?” What was in it for them?
 Donald Trump does understand what it means to serve something bigger than yourself. He doesn’t understand duty, honor, country. He lives by a different code. Lies, selfishness, greed. Yes, Donald Trump and I have a pretty different philosophy when it comes to giving our word. Mine means something. When I tell the American people I’m going to do something, I follow through. Here in Michigan, you know that’s true.
 When Barack and I took office back in 2009, the economy was crashing. We inherited an economy in free fall. And millions of Americans, including so many right here in Michigan, lost their jobs, their homes, and their savings. With the help of Debbie breaking her neck here, President Obama and I worked hard. He put me in charge of the Recovery Act. I spent a lot of time here in Michigan and Detroit, working with you and Senator Stabenow, and thinking every single day about the folks on the factory line, busting their necks, just trying to put food on the table.
 A lot of folks were all ready to count Detroit out as well as the auto American industry to count it out. But I knew what Debbie knew. I’ve known always. It’s never a good bet to bet against the American worker. So when we promise to stand with the American auto industry, we delivered. We didn’t do it to help wealthy investors or pad bonus checks for CEOs, we did it to save an iconic American industry, a testament to the skills and ingenuity of American manufacturing. And the jobs of hundreds of thousands of American workers and the lifeblood of communities all across the Midwest, and used to be in my state of Delaware as well. When Detroit declared bankruptcy, I was right here working alongside the city leaders to get the lights turned back on to revitalize the future of Detroit.
 Well, nearly 20,000 auto manufacturing jobs have been lost in Michigan under Trump. Nearly 80,000 were created during the Obama Biden administration. I’ve got long history. I’m not just talking about what I’m going to do, but delivering results for Michiganders. And now, we need to do it again. We need to do the hard work, not only to recover, but to build the economy back for the future once more. That’s why my build back better agenda, that’s what it’s all about. Starts right here with you in the union halls, all across America. Back in July, I made the first plank in my agenda a plan to modernize American manufacturing and technology to ensure that the future is made in America, by all of you. And today, I’m announcing some additional steps to make this plank even stronger.
 First, we’re going to impose a tax penalty on companies that avoid paying US taxes by off shoring jobs and manufacturing, only to sell those goods back to the American consumer. If your big corporate strategy is to boost your shareholders profits, your CEOs’ bonuses by moving jobs out, well, we’re going to make sure you not only pay full US taxes on those profits, but we’re going to guarantee. We’re going to add a 10% off shoring penalty surge tax to your bill. No more deductions for writing off expenses for the cost of sending jobs overseas, which is a big deal that could be done here at home by qualified American workers. I’m not looking to punish American business, but there’s a better way. Make it in Michigan, make it in America, invest in our communities and the workers in places like Warren. That’s what this is about.
 UAW workers, steel workers, IBW workers. You’re the best craftsmen and women in the world. And you’re right here. If you’re ready to make it in America, then just like there are consequences for off showing, there will be rewards and incentives for creating good paying jobs here at home. Today, I’m announcing my new Made in America tax credit, a 10% advanceable tax credit for companies that invest in the United States and American workers, to help accelerate the recovery under our build back better agenda.
 So if your company revitalizes a closing facility here in the United States, like the transmission plant that got closed last year, we’ll take care of 10% of the investment that company makes to reopen it. If you retool a manufacturing facility to make it more competitive, for example, by shifting to help build a new fleet of clean American vehicles made by UAW members, we’ll make sure that’s more than affordable for you. We’re going to make sure you’ll get a tax credit. If you reshore jobs that have previously been sent overseas, expand your operations in the United States or increase wages for manufacturing jobs will make an even smarter strategic decision for your company because we will make sure you get a tax credit.
 These two steps on top of my plans to close each and every one of the Trump loopholes that he created in 2017 with his tax cut to reward companies with big tax breaks for off shoring. That’s going to end. If you’re going to want to build things here in the United States, because under our administration, the Biden Harris Administration, is going to deliver on the promise to buy American. It’s been a law for almost a century, but we’ve never lived up to it. The idea is simple.
 Today, the US government spends about $600 billion of taxpayer’s money on federal contracts annually. And that money should go to support American jobs and American businesses. But President Trump has only ever treated it like it was a weak suggestion. Agencies of the federal government can waive the requirements, explanations that Trump doesn’t bother even kick back on. We’re going to change that when I’m president.
 In my first week, I’ll sign a series of executive actions to make sure we enforce by America and direct the full purchasing power of the federal government to fulfill his promise, starting by closing those waiver loopholes immediately. And I promise you, I’ll use the full power of the Defense Production Act to enforce buy American and tighten the rules for public infrastructure projects, roads, bridges, canals, airports. And I’m going to crack down on companies that label products as made in America, even if they’re coming from China or elsewhere. We found out that on Trump’s watch a company selling deployment bags to active duty troops being deployed falsely claimed this product was made in America. When in fact, it was really made mostly in China. Trump didn’t do anything to respond. I’m not going to let that happen on my watch. We’re going to have an office at the White House dedicated to making sure everyone is playing by the same made in America rules.
 And one more thing, when I say we’re going to use the purchasing power of the federal government to reinvigorate domestic manufacturing, I mean. We’re going to do that with the American automobile industry as well. United States government owns and maintains an enormous fleet of vehicles. We’re going to convert those government vehicles into electric vehicles, made in America, sourced right here in the United States of America. With the government providing the demand and support to retool factories that are suggesting they’re struggling to compete, the United States automobile industry will set up expanding the capacity in the United States, not China, to lead the world in clean energy vehicles. I can’t wait to get, I said, behind that all electric Corvette that goes 210 miles an hour. Y’all think I’m kidding. I mean it. Last year, that converted Corvette set a speed record of 210.2 miles per hour, electric vehicle. So don’t tell me we don’t still make the best cars right here in the United States of America, and trucks. We’re going to make it easy for American consumers to switch to electric vehicles.
 We’re going to build on all the new infrastructure we’re going to build on highways. We’re going to build a network of 500,000 charging stations across America, providing prevailing wage jobs for the IBW and other craftsmen all across the country. And by offering rebates and incentives to swap older fuel efficient vehicles for new clean American made models, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil. And together, this will mean, listen to me now, 1 million new jobs in the American automobile industry, 1 million. With supply chain, as well as the associated infrastructure, we can do this. We can do this. We can revitalize our industrial base as the heart of the American middle class.
 Think about the worker in Warren who when the transmission plant closed, he told a reporter and I’m quoting him, “Getting a good GM job 23 years ago for me was like winning the lottery,” he said. “I was trying to start a family. I was able to buy a house. I went to Disney world, all that.” Think about that. A job that felt like winning a lottery because it opened the door to a life that you wanted for yourself, because it gave you dignity, allowed you to provide for your family. Getting a good job in 2020, right here in America, shouldn’t be a lottery. It should be an absolute expectation for everyone.
 I don’t accept the defeatist view that the forces of automation and globalization mean we can’t keep good paying union jobs here in America and create more of them. I don’t buy for one second that the vitality of American manufacturing is a thing of the past. We have the most qualified workers in the world. American manufacturing, is the old expression you heard your grandpop say or your grandmother, was the arsenal of democracy in World War II. Well, guess what? It’s going to be part of the engine of American prosperity now in 2021, and we’re going to make it happen with American grit, American determination, and American union workers.
 Look, folks. That’s my promise to you. And keep in mind, back in the 30s, they set up the law relating to unions. It said that not you could have a union, it said the government should encourage unions to increase [inaudible 00:25:10]. You’re going to have the best, most friendly union president in history of the United States of America, when I’m in the White House.
 I want to thank you all, for all you do. Don’t give up hope. Don’t give up hope. We can come back. We can come back stronger than we were before. I want to thank you all. I carry with me… I don’t have it. I gave it to my staff. I carry with me in my pocket… Do I have that around, anyone? Where’s my staff? I gave it away. Anyway, I carry a schedule in my pocket that lists every single day the number of troops lost in Afghanistan and Iraq. The number wounded. This is my schedule. The back of the schedule is always a black box. You can’t really see it. The press may be able to. It says daily US updates. Troops died in Iraq and Afghanistan, 6,922, not over 6,000, 6,922, is every one of those women and men left behind. An entire group of people relied on them.
 US troops wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, 53,188. Not over 53,000. US COVID infected in America, 6,344,700. US COVID deaths, 189,506. Military COVID infected, 118,984. Military COVID deaths, 6,114. Folks, every one of these lives matter. Every one of these lives left somebody behind grieving. We can’t ever forget them, ever, ever forget them. Thank you all. God bless you. And may God protect our troops. Thank you.