
 Well, thank you very much. And hello, CPAC. Do you miss me yet? Do you miss me yet? A lot of things going on.
 There’s so many wonderful friends, conservatives and fellow citizens in this room and all across our country. I stand before you today to declare that the incredible journey we’ve begun together, we went through a journey like nobody else. There’s never been a journey like it. There’s never been a journey so successful. We began it together four years ago, and it is far from being over. We’ve just started.
 Our movement of proud, hardworking, and you know what? This is the hardest working people, hard working American Patriots is just getting started. And in the end we will win. We will win.
 We’ve been doing a lot of winning as we gather this week, we’re in the middle of a historic struggle for America’s future, America’s culture, and America’s institutions, borders, and most cherished principles. Our security, our prosperity, and our very identity as Americans is at stake, like perhaps at no other time.
 So no matter how much the Washington establishment and the powerful, special interests may want to silence us, let there be no doubt. We will be victorious. And America will be stronger and greater than ever before.
 I want to thank my great friends, Matt and Mercedes Schlep. Matt, thank you. Thank you. Mercedes, thank you very much. And the American Conservative Union for hosting this extraordinary event. They’re talking about it all over the world, Matt. I know you don’t like that, but that’s okay, all over the world.
 I also want to pay my love and respect to the great Rush Limbaugh who is watching closely and smiling down on us. He’s watching and he’s loving it and he loves Catherine. Catherine, thank you for being here, so great. Thank you Catherine. He loved you, Catherine. I will tell you that. Fantastic. Thank you Catherine very much.
 To each and every one of you here at CPAC, I am more grateful to you than you will ever know. We’re gathered this afternoon to talk about the future of our movement, the future of our party, and the future of our beloved country. For the next four years, the brave Republicans in this room will be at the heart of the effort to oppose the radical Democrats, the fake news media, and their toxic cancel culture. Something new to our ears, cancel culture. And I want you to know that I’m going to continue to fight right by your side. We will do what we’ve done right from the beginning, which is to win. We’re not starting new parties. They kept saying, he’s going to start a brand new party. We have the Republican party. It’s going to unite and be stronger than ever before. I am not starting a new party. That was fake news, fake news.
 No. Wouldn’t that be brilliant? Let’s start a new party and let’s divide our vote so that you can never win. No, we’re not interested in that. No we have tremendous, Mr. McLaughlin just gave me numbers that nobody’s ever heard of before, more popular than anybody. That’s all of us. It’s all of us. Those are great numbers. And I want to thank you very much. Those are incredible numbers. I came here and he was giving me 95%, 97%, 92%. I said, they’re great. And I want to thank everybody in this room and everybody all throughout the country, throughout the world, if you want to really know that. Thank you though. Thank you.
 We will be united and strong like never before. We will save and strengthen America. And we will fight the onslaught of radicalism, socialism, and indeed it all leads to communism once and for all. That’s what it leads to. You’ll be hearing more and more about that as we go along. But that’s what it leads to. You know that. We all knew that the Biden administration was going to be bad. But none of us even imagined just how bad they would be and how far left they would go. He never talked about this. We would have those wonderful debates. He would never talk about this. We didn’t know what the hell he was talking about actually.
 His campaign was all lies. Talked about energy, I thought I said, “This guy actually, he’s okay with energy.” He wasn’t okay with energy. He wants to put you all out of business. He’s not okay with energy. He wants windmills, the windmills. The windmills that don’t work when you need them. Joe Biden has had the most disastrous first month of any president in modern history. That’s true. Already the Biden administration has proven that they are anti jobs, anti-family, anti borders, anti energy, anti-women, and anti science. In just one short month, we have gone from America first to America last. You think about it, right? America last. There’s no better example than the new and horrible crisis on our Southern border. We did such a good job. It was all worked. Nobody’s ever seen anything that we did. And now he wants it all to go to hell. When I left office just six weeks ago, we had created the most secure border in us history.
 We had built almost 500 miles of a great border wall that helped us with these numbers because once it’s up, they used to say, “A wall doesn’t work.” Well, you know what I’ve always said, walls and wheels. Those are two things that will never change. The wall has been amazing. It’s been incredible and little sections of it to complete, They don’t want to complete it. They don’t want to complete little sections in certain little areas. They don’t want to complete. But it’s had an impact that nobody would have even believed. It’s amazing considering that the Democrats’ number one priority was to make sure that the wall would never, ever get built, would never, ever happen, would never get financed. We got it financed. We ended catch and release, ended asylum fraud, and brought illegal crossings to historic lows. When illegal aliens trespass across our borders, they were properly caught, detained and sent back home. And these were some rough customers. I want to tell you some rough customers were entering our country.
 It took them the new administration only a few weeks to turn this unprecedented accomplishment into self-inflicted humanitarian and national security disaster by recklessly eliminating our border, security measures, controls, all of the things that we put into place. Joe Biden has triggered a massive flood of illegal immigration into our country, the likes of which we have never seen before. They’re coming up by the tens of thousands. They’re all coming to take advantage of the things that he said that’s luring everybody to come to America. And we’re one country. We can’t afford the problems of the world, as much as we’d love to. We’d love to help. But we can’t do that. So they’re all coming because of promises and foolish words.
 Perhaps worst of all, Joe Biden’s decision to cancel border security has single-handedly launched a youth migrant crisis that is enriching child smugglers, vicious criminal cartels, and some of the most evil people on the planet. You see it every day, just turn on the news. You’ll see it every day. Under my administration, we stopped the child smugglers. We dismantle the criminal cartels. We greatly limited drug and human trafficking to a level that nobody actually thought was possible. And the wall helped us a lot. And we protected vulnerable people from the ravages of dangerous predators. And that’s what they are dangerous, dangerous predators.
 But the Biden administration has put the vial coyotes back in business and it has done so in a very, very big way. Under the new administration, catch and release has been restored. Can you imagine? We work so hard, catch, you know where that is? You catch them, you take their name, they may be killers. They may be rapists. They may be drug smugglers. You take their name and you release them into our country. We did the opposite.
 We not only didn’t release them, we had them brought back to their country. Illegal immigrants are now being apprehended and released along the entire Southern border, just the opposite of what it was two months ago. They weren’t coming because they couldn’t get in. Once they think they can get in, they’re coming. And they are coming at levels that you haven’t even seen yet, by the hundreds of thousands, by the millions they’ll be coming.
 The Biden administration is now actively expediting the admission of illegal migrants, enabling them to lodge frivolous asylum claims and admitting them by the thousands and thousands and thousands a day, crowded together in unsanitary conditions, despite the ongoing economic and public health crisis, COVID-19, or as I call it, the China virus.
 There’s no masks. There’s no double mask. That was a new one that came out two weeks ago. First Fauci said, “You don’t need masks, no masks, no good. No, no.” Then all of a sudden, you want them; and now he wants double masks. No social distancing, no nothing, no nothing. And together, and it’s sad actually. And it’s sad for them. And it sad for our country, what the Biden administration is doing to push young migrants into the hands of human traffickers and coyotes is dangerous, immoral, and indefensible, hard to believe it’s happening. Biden has failed in his number one duty as chief executive enforcing America’s laws. This alone should be reason enough for Democrats to suffer withering losses in the midterms and to lose the White House decisively four years from now.
 Actually, as you know, they just lost the White House. But it’s one of those things. But who knows, who knows? I may even decide to beat them for a third time. Okay? For a third time. True. Joe Biden defunded the border wall and stopped all future construction, even on small open sections that just needed to be finished up routine little work, it’s already been bought. Wait until the contractors get to them. And they say, “No, it costs us much more money not to finish this small section than if we finished it.” That’s going to be nice. Wait until you see those bills start pouring in.
 He revoked the executive order cracking down on deadly sanctuary cities. He has effectively ordered a shutdown of ICE, halting virtually all deportations, everyone, murderers, everybody, no more. Let’s not deport people and restricting our law enforcement professionals. And they are great professionals. You have many of them represented here today, from conducting almost any immigration enforcement of any kind. The Biden policy of releasing criminals into the US interior is making America into a sanctuary nation where criminals, illegal immigrants, including gang members and sex offenders are set free into American communities.
 They have no idea who’s coming up. And remember with the caravans, these countries, not only the three of them, but many, many countries all over the world. They’re not giving us their best and their finest, because they’re intelligent. They’re not giving us their best and their finest. Remember I said that. I said that a long time ago, when I made the first remarks, when I came down the escalator with our great future first lady who says, hello, who loves you as much as I love you. But I said that a long time ago. And we turned out to be 100% correct.
 Biden’s radical immigration policies aren’t just illegal. They’re immoral. They’re heartless. And they are a betrayal of our nation’s core values. It’s a terrible thing that’s happening.
 The Republican party must hold Joe Biden and the Democrats accountable. They ripped up the diplomatic agreements we negotiated with Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador to shut down illegal immigration. They got a fortune, they got paid $500 million a year. When I came into office, those countries were refusing to take back illegal alien gang members, including MS 13, the most vicious probably of them all. No matter where you go in the world, MS 13, they do things that even the worst don’t think about. So I asked how much do we pay these countries? How much do we pay them? Sir, we pay them approximately $ 500 million a year. It’s a lot of money.
 I mean, it’s peanuts compared to the way other countries rip us off, but that’s a lot of money. I said, “Okay, we aren’t going to pay them anymore because they wouldn’t take back the criminals.” And this was true with the Obama administration. It was true for many, many years. So we’d catch a murderer. We’d want to bring them back to Guatemala, or Honduras, or El Salvador. They wouldn’t take them back. “No, we don’t want them.” We’d fly them in. They wouldn’t let the plane land. We’d bus them in. They wouldn’t let the buses get anywhere near the border.
 And I said, “We’re not going to pay them anymore.” So after I said that, and I stopped payment, like a term that we use in the world of business, let’s stop payment. So we stopped payment. They were delinquent. We stopped payment and they very quickly came to the table and we made a deal, very quick deal. We still kept the money. We still didn’t pay because… Or we made a deal.
 And when illegal aliens came across our border, they were rapidly deported and lovingly accepted by those countries from where they came. And it worked out great. So now they accept the people and that we ultimately got along very well with those countries, those three countries and many countries throughout the world, because they respected us again. They didn’t respect us. They couldn’t believe what they were getting away with. But now, Joe Biden has wrecked this great deal, wrecked it. And they’re already doing what they were doing before and they’re taking the money. And that’s just a small portion of what’s going on.
 To top it all off, the Biden people are pushing a bill that would grant mass amnesty for millions of illegal aliens while massively expanding chain migration. That’s where you come in and everybody comes in, your grandmother, your father, your mother, your brother, your cousins. They come in so easily. So, so crazy. So crazy. It even requires that the US government provide a legal border crosses with taxable funded lawyers, lawyers, everybody need a good lawyer? You can’t have one. They get the lawyers, they get lawyers. They’re probably very good too.
 The Democrat immigration bill is a globalist corp. You take a look at the corporatist, big tech attack on hardworking citizens of every race, religion, color, and creed. And Republicans must ensure that it never is allowed to become federal law, which is what they want to do.
 We must stand tall in the party. We have to do this. We have to stand tall as the party for law abiding Americans and others, when they’re in our country. Border security is just one of the many issues on which the new administration has already betrayed the American people. He didn’t talk about this stuff. I debated him. He wasn’t talking about this. What he signed with those executive orders, they weren’t things that were discussed. We didn’t know all about him and the press because they’re fake news. They’re the fakest fakers there are.
 The press refused to ask the questions. And when I asked the questions on television, on the debate, Chris Wallace, in this case, and others refused to let him answer. They refused to let them answer the questions. Maybe we could have found something. Or if the media did its job, which they don’t, they’re callous indifference to working family is equally clear when it comes to the critical matter of getting America’s children back to school. And they must get back and get back right now, right now, crazy. Terrible. Terrible.
 The Biden administration is actually bragging about the classroom education they are providing to migrant children on the border. While at the same time, millions of American children are having their futures destroyed by Joe Biden’s anti-science school closures. Think of it. We’re educating students on the border, but our own people, children of our citizens, citizens themselves are not getting the education that they deserve. There’s no reason whatsoever why the vast majority of young Americans should not be back in school immediately. The only reason that most parents do not have that choice is because Joe Biden has sold out America’s children to the teacher’s unions.
 His position is morally inexcusable. You know that. Joe Biden has shamefully betrayed America’s youth. And he is cruelly keeping our children locked in their homes, no reason for it whatsoever. They want to get out. They’re cheating the next generations of Americans out of the future that they deserve. And they do deserve this future. They’re going to grow up and they’re going to have a scar.
 It’s a scandal of the highest order. And one of the most graven acts by any president in our lifetimes. It’s the teacher’s union, it’s the votes and it shouldn’t happen. And nobody has more respect for teachers than I do. And I’ll bet you, a lot of the people within that union, they agree with everything I’m saying. Even the New York Times is calling out the Democrats. The mental and physical health of these young people is reaching a breaking point. Tragically, suicide attempts have skyrocketed and student depression is now commonplace and at levels that we’ve never seen before.
 The Democrats now say we have to pass their $1.9 trillion boondoggle to open schools, but a very small part of it has to do with that. You know where it’s going, it’s going-
 Well, part of it has to do with that, you know where it’s going, it’s going to bail out badly run Democrats, that is so much of it. But billions of dollars for schools remain unspent from the COVID relief bills that were passed last year. So on behalf of the moms, dads, and children of America, I call on Joe Biden to get the schools open and get them open now. They’re a great thing to do. When I left office and we’re very proud of this because this was something that they said could not be done. The FDA said it, everybody said it. Any article you read said it couldn’t be done. It would be years and years, I handed the new administration what everyone is now calling a modern day medical miracle. Some say, it’s the greatest thing to happen in hundreds of years, two vaccines produced in record time with numerous others on the way, including the Johnson and Johnson vaccine that was approved just yesterday.
 And therapeutic relief also, if you’re sick, we have things now that are incredible. What has taken place over the last year under our administration would have taken any other precedent at least five years. And we got it done in nine months. Everyone says five years, oh, five years.
 Can you imagine if you had to go through what all of the countries of the world who are now getting the vaccine or soon will be getting it from various companies, but can you imagine if all of those countries had to go through what they’ve been going through over the last year? You’d lose hundreds of millions of people. I pushed the FDA like they have never been pushed before. They told me that loud and clear. They have never been pushed like I pushed them. I didn’t like them at all, but once we got it done, I said, I now love you very much. What the Trump administration has done with vaccines has in many respects, perhaps saved large portions of the world. Not only our country, but large portions of the world.
 Not only did we push the FDA far beyond what the bureaucrats wanted to do. We also put up billions and billions of dollars, 10 billion to produce the vaccines before we knew they were going to work. It was called a calculated bet or a calculated risk. We took a risk because if we didn’t do that, you still wouldn’t have the vaccines. You wouldn’t have them for a long time. So think of that, we took this bet. We made a bet because we thought we were on a certain track, but you’d be starting to make them right now. It’d be a long time before you ever saw. It takes 60 to 100 days to manufacture and inspect new doses. And that means that 100% of the increased availability that we have now was initiated by our administration. 100%. In fact, the director of National Institutes of Health, Francis Collins, he’s Fauci’s boss, actually, I think he’s a Democrat too, by the way, recently said that our operation warp speed was absolutely breathtaking and that the Trump administration deserves full credit, which we do. And as conservatives and Republicans, never forget that we did it. Never let them take the credit because they don’t deserve the credit. They just followed now, they’re following our plan, but this has been something that they really call, they call it an absolute miracle. Joe Biden is only implementing the plan that we put in place. And if we had an honest media, which we don’t, they would say it loud and clear. By the time I left that magnificent house at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, almost 20 million Americans had already been vaccinated. 1.5 million doses were administered on my final day alone. 1.5 million in a day. Yet Biden said just a few days ago that when he got here, meaning The White House, there was no vaccine. He said, there’s no vaccine. Oh, good. Say it again, Joe. Now I don’t think he said that, frankly, in a malicious way. I really don’t. I actually believe he said that because he didn’t really know what the hell was happening.
 Never let them forget. This was us. We did this. And the distribution is moving along, according to our plan. And it’s moving along really well. We had the military, what they’ve done, our generals and all of the people, what they’ve done is incredible. But remember, we took care of a lot of people, including, I guess on December 21st, we took care of Joe Biden. Cause he got his shot. He got his vaccine. He forgot. It shows you how un-painful all that vaccine shot is. So everybody go get your shot. He forgot so it wasn’t very traumatic obviously, but he got his shot and it’s good that he got his shot. Last year, I predicted to you that the extremism, corruption and incompetence of the Biden administration would be literally unprecedented in American history. Unfortunately he has proven me 100% right. Already as president, Biden has urged Congress to pass legislation shredding your Second Amendment. Your Second Amendment is in far bigger trouble than you now, and for four years I fought like hell to save your Second Amendment. And we saved it 100%.
 We saved it. He signed an order to conduct politically correct far left indoctrination trainings in every department of the federal government, including the US military after I had terminated these horrible things that were being preached to our military and he wants it to go forward. It’s insane within his first few hours Biden eliminated our national security travel bands on nations plagued by terrorism. His first priority was to open our borders to un-vetted travelers from Libya, Yemen, Syria, Somalia, and many other countries where strict vetting cannot occur. Countries that have tremendous problems. Countries with tremendous terrorism problems. We did it a travel ban. It was a real achievement.
 We told those countries, sorry, straighten out your act. We don’t want people coming in where they had an ideology or a problem. We just couldn’t have it. And it was incredible, how it worked was incredible. And he terminated it. We had to get it approved. It went all the way up to the Supreme Court of the United States. We got it approved and he terminates it. In addition, he’s already increased refugee admissions by nearly 10 times, but in effect, it’ll soon be hundreds of times as millions of people flow up through our soon to be open borders. And by the way, the border patrol and ICE, these are some of the great heroes of our country. These are incredible people. I got to know them very well.
 Your families still cannot go out to eat at local restaurants. But Joe Biden is bringing in thousands upon thousands of refugees from all over the world. People that nobody knows anything about, we don’t have crime records. We don’t have health records. What are they bringing in with them? When I left office, we had virtually ended the endless wars, these endless wars, they go on forever. They go on forever. I would go to Dover and I would see caskets, coffins coming in. I’d see the parents and the wives and husbands. I would see the kids. Endless wars, 19 years in Afghanistan. We have it down to almost nothing left and I hear they might want to go back in. Iraq, remember I used to say, don’t go in, but if you’re going to go in, keep the oil, well, we went in and we didn’t keep the oil. We had made historic peace deals in the middle East. Like nobody thought were even possible with not a drop of bloodshed.
 And by the way, not one American soldier has been killed in Afghanistan in over a year. Think of that. Not one. Those troops have largely come home. At the same time, the new administration unilaterally withdrew our crippling sanctions on Iran, foolishly giving away all of America’s leveraged before negotiations have even begun. Leave the sanctions negotiated. Does anybody understand what I’m saying here? Are there any good business people? You don’t have to be a good, are there any bad business people? They took off the sanctions. They took off the sanctions.
 They say, well, we’re going to not have any sanctions. Let’s negotiate a deal. I don’t know, Matt Schlep. I don’t think you would have done that, do you think so, Matt? I don’t think so. Mercedes wouldn’t have. Now you do that, you make a deal and then you do what they want it. I will tell you something and I said it, had we had a fair election, the results would have been much different and we would have had a deal with Iran within the first week. They wanted those sanctions off. He took them off for nothing, for nothing. Now you watch how tough they negotiate. In another horrendous surrender he agreed to get back into the World Health Organization.
 For approximately $500 million a year, which is what we were paying. When I withdrew from the WHO and you know the whole story with that, they called it badly. They really are puppets for China. They called and they wanted us to stay in. I said, how much are we paying approximately $500 million? How much is China paying a much larger in terms of population country, sir, they’re paying $39 million. I say, why are we paying 500 million and they’re paying 39? I could tell you why. Because the people that made the deal are stupid, that’s why.
 And I had no idea how popular it was. I didn’t even know if I would be able to politically, because people were so happy when I did get out, but I said, so if we went in, we could get it for 39 million, which is what China, not 500 million, which is what we were stupidly paying. And they said, we can make a deal, we want you to go in, we can make a deal. Okay, and I decided not to do it, but we could have had it for 39. We could have had it for the same as China. And they decide now to go back into the World Health Organization and pay 500 million, what the hell is wrong with them? No, no, this is just emblematic.
 It’s a tremendous amount of money, but compared to trillions, it’s not, but it’s a tremendous amount of money. Why would China pay 39 million? And we’re paying almost 500 million. Why? So we could have made the same deal that China had 39 million. And they just say, we’re going back in. We’re going back into the World Health Organization. They go back in, they pay 500. It is so sad, just like the Iran and the World Health Organization, Joe Biden put the United States back into the very unfair and very costly Paris Climate Accord without negotiating a better deal.
 They wanted us so badly back in. I’ll tell you they wanted us. I was getting called from all of the countries. You must come back into the Paris Accord. I said, tell me why, give me one good reason. First of all, China doesn’t kick in for 10 years, Russia goes by an old standard, which was not a clean standard and other countries, but we get hit right from the beginning would have cost us hundreds of thousands and millions of jobs. It was a disaster, but they go back in, I could have made an unbelievable deal and gone back in, but I didn’t want to do that. Surrendering millions of jobs and trillions of dollars to all of these other countries, almost all of them that were in the deal. So they have favorable treatment, we don’t have favorable treatment. And we just said, we’re going back in. To go back in, they wanted us so badly, you could’ve negotiated, if you wanted to go back in which frankly, we have the cleanest air, the cleanest water and everything else that we’ve ever had. So I don’t know why we have to.
 What good does it do when we’re clean, but China is not and Russia is not an India is not. So they are pouring fumes, you know the world is actually a small piece of the universe, right? They’re pouring fumes and we’re trying to protect everything and building products for three times more than is necessary. No, they could have made a great deal. If they were going to go back in, that’s fine. But they could have made a great deal and said, instead of just saying we’re back in. These people. And in one of his first official acts, which was incredible, because again, he talked about energy. He never said he was going to do this. He canceled the Keystone XL Pipeline destroying not the 8,000 or the 9,000 or the 11,000 jobs that you hear.
 But 42,000 great paying jobs on just about day one, right? He never talked about that during a debate because he wouldn’t have gotten away with it. Well, he would have, because they cheated so much, it probably wouldn’t have been. No, but that was not a topic of conversation. Remember fracking, you can frack. Oh, we love fracking. During the primary no fracking. As soon as he got through that, he said, no, of course everybody can frack. No fracking. You wait till you see what happens with your gasoline. Wait till you see what happens and we cannot let this stuff continue to go on. One of my proudest accomplishments as president was to make America energy independent, the United States became the number one energy superpower on Earth. Number one.
 Became number one. Bigger than Saudi Arabia, bigger than Russia by a lot. We left them all in the dust. They were all in the dust. But if the Democrats have their way, we are heading from energy dominance to energy disaster. That’s what’s happening. You have to see what’s going on. Everything’s being closed up. It’s a disaster. The blackouts we saw in California last summer and all the time and the windmill calamity that we’re witnessing in Texas. Great state of Texas. We love Texas, but it’s so sad when you look at it, that’ll just be the start. How bad is wind power. So I talk about it all the time at CPAC, right? We went to CPAC. Remember last I said, we’re going to watch the president, well, Alice, the wind isn’t blowing. I don’t believe we’ll have any electricity. I remember we would kid, but I wasn’t actually kidding.
 It’s such an expensive form of energy. It’s so bad for the environment. It kills the birds. It destroys the landscapes. And remember, these are structural columns with fans on them. They wear out, and when they wear out all over the country, you see them, nobody takes them down. They’re rotting. They’re rusting, how this is environmentally good for our country. And it costs many, many times more than natural gas, which is clean and can fuel our great factories. Wind can’t do that. And solar, I love solar, but it doesn’t have the capacity to do what we have to do to make America great again, sorry it just doesn’t have it. Under the radical Democrat policies, the price of gasoline has already surged 30% since the election. And we’ll go to $5, $6, $7 and even higher.
 So enjoy that when you go to the pump and they’ll say that’d be about $200 to fill up your van. Remember they used to go to the little small vans. They got away from the big ones that everybody wanted. They went to the small ones. Well, you know what? Probably a good investment. As long as these guys have their say because you know, it’s a shame what’s happening. Energy prices are going to go through the roof. And that includes your electric bills. That includes any bill having to do with energy, our biggest cost. We will now be relying on Russia and the middle East for oil. And they talk about Russia, Russia, Russia. What’s better than what this guy has done for Russia. I had oil where they were actually paying you to take it. Okay. Remember they were going to give you 37 a barrel, but you had to take it away.
 You had free oil almost for a period of time and one way I was proud of it, but we also had to save the energy industry and it worked out well. And I dealt with Russia and Saudi Arabia and they cut back on production and we got it back up. But now it’s going the opposite because now they are taking this incredible energy independence away from the people of our country. And you’re going to see costs go like you have never seen them go before. It’s a very sad and very stupid thing that they’re doing. The Biden policies are a massive win for other oil producing countries and a massive loss for the United States and our great citizens, Joe Biden and the Democrats are even pushing policies that would destroy women’s sports.
 A lot of new records are being broken in women’s sports. Hate to say that ladies, but got a lot of new records, they’re being shattered. For years, the weightlifting, every ounce is like a big deal for many years. All of a sudden somebody comes along and beats it by a hundred pounds. Boom. Now young girls and women are in sets that they are now being forced to compete against those who are biological males. It’s not good for women. It’s not good for women’s sports, which worked so long and so hard to get to where they are. The records that stood for years, even decades are now being smashed with these. Smashed. If this is not change women’s sports, as we know it will die. They’ll end, it’ll end.
 What coach, if I’m a coach, I want to be a great coach. What coach, as an example, wants to recruit a young woman to compete, if her record can easily be broken by somebody who was born a man. Not too many of those coaches around, right? If they are around, they won’t be around long because they’re going to have a big problem when that record is we’re oh and 16, but we’re getting better. No I think it’s crazy. I think it’s just crazy what’s happening. We must protect the integrity of women’s sports so important after. And I don’t even know, is that controversial? Somebody said, well, that’s going to be very controversial. I said, that’s okay. You haven’t heard anything yet.
 As you can see, the early weeks of the Biden administration have nothing less than, they’ve been a catastrophe for American workers and for American families, the task of our mission. And for us, it’s our movement. As I said, a movement like has never been seen, I think we could probably say, never been seen anywhere in the world. And nobody’s ever seen a movement like this. I’d grow up and I’d watch somebody who came in second in New Hampshire or first in Iowa and that was the end. And they became famous for the rest of their lives. We won the election twice. I mean, think about it, twice. The task for our movement and our party is to stand up to this destructive agenda with confidence and with result, the future of the Republican party is as a party that defends the social economic and cultural interests and values of working American families of every race, color, and creed. That’s why the party is growing so rapidly and is becoming a different party. And it’s becoming a party of love. You have to see outside the streets. I mean, there’s such love. The flags. Amazing. That’s right now, it’s a party that’s incredible. The people, the spirit, and there are, as you probably heard a little while ago, I mean, there’s more spirit now than there’s ever been, including even before the election, more spirit now than we’ve ever seen, because people are seeing how bad it can be. And again, I want to thank Rush and Catherine, because what he did to get the word out has been incredible. Some people are irreplaceable as Sean Hannity would say and he said Rush is irreplaceable, but his spirit lives on. And that’s something that we need and we love. Republicans believe that the needs of every citizen must come first. In fact, America must come first. We don’t put it first.
 America must come first. We don’t put it first. They don’t put it first. Over the past four years my administration delivered for Americans of all backgrounds like never before, like never before. We built the strongest economy in the history of the world, raised wages and achieved the lowest African-American, Hispanic-American, Asian-American unemployment rates ever, ever, ever recorded. It was so great for everybody of all backgrounds that even after the China virus, we are leading the world. Nobody’s even close. We’re leading it in the comeback. Our economic comeback has been incredible. That’s because the financial and economic foundation we built was so strong, that unlike other countries who are having a hard time, we didn’t break. We came roaring back, and now our stock market and your 401(k)s are again at record levels, higher than ever before, actually.
 Many people have asked, “What is Trumpism?” A new term being used more and more. I’m hearing that term more and more. I didn’t come up with it. But what it means is great deals, great trade deals. Great ones, not deals where we give away everything, our jobs, our money, like the USMCA replacement of the horrible NAFTA. NAFTA was one of the worst deals ever made, probably the worst trade deal ever made, and we ended it. A lot of people forget, we ended it.
 Now we have the USMCA-Mexico-Canada. It’s incredible what it’s done for our farmers, who are doing fantastically. Did you see grain prices and grain sales are at an all-time high? Wheat, all-time high. So many elements of farms and farmers, and they love me. Remember, it’s going to be very close in Iowa. Well, it wasn’t close. We won in a landslide, Iowa, because our farmers know, and they put up with it, and we did a lot of work with the tariffs and all these things that we had to do to get it. Now the farmers are doing great, but they’re setting records.
 It means low taxes and eliminating job-killing regulations, Trumpism. It means strong borders, but people coming into our country based on a system of merit. They come in and they can help us, as opposed to coming here and not being good for us, including criminals, of which there are many. It means no riots in the streets. It means law enforcement. It means very strong protection for the Second Amendment and the right to keep and bear arms. It means support for the forgotten men and women who have been taken advantage of for so many years. They were doing great. They were doing great before that horrible thing from China came in and hit us, and now they’re starting to do really well again.
 If you think about it, we built the economy twice. We built it then, and then like every other country in the world, it went down, and then we built it again. Now it’s higher in many ways, certainly in the stock market, it’s higher in many ways than it was before. That’s because of the foundation, and no country comes even close to competing with our comeback. It means a strong military and taking care of our vets, but a strong military, which we have totally rebuilt. We have rebuilt it. Our military has never been stronger than it is today. It was tired. It was depleted. It was obsolete. Now we have the best brand-new equipment ever made, and it was all produced right here in the USA. Isn’t that nice? We take care of our vets. We had a poll recently just before leaving office. The vets had a 91% approval rating for the way we took care of them. That’s the highest number in the history of the polls, the vet polls.
 On top of all of that, we have even created the Space Force, the first new branch of the United States military in nearly 75 years. The mission of the Democrat party is to promote socialism. They want to promote socialism, ultimately leading, unfortunately, to communism, and that will happen. If you look at Venezuela, you look at some of these countries, that’s why some of our biggest supporters are from South America, Latin America, because they’ve seen what goes on with all of this cancel culture, and you can’t speak, and let’s cut them off and let’s not give them words. The mission of our movement and of the Republican party must be to create a future of good jobs, strong families, safe communities, a vibrant culture, and a great nation for all Americans, and that’s what we’re creating.
 Their party is based upon unvarnished disdain for America, its past and its people. You see that happening. It’s horrible the way they treat the legacy of our country, the culture of our country. Our party is based on love for America and the belief that this is an exceptional nation, blessed by God. We take great pride in our country. We teach the truth about history. We celebrate our rich heritage and national traditions. We honor George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, and all national heroes, and of course, we respect our great American flag.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much, so nice.
 I started that hearing… Really, we’re getting word of that, hearing that during some of the rallies, especially the latter rallies, where we set records. We had 56 unbelievable packed rallies, and nobody’s ever had anything like we had. We started hearing, “We love you.” I asked somebody, because we really liked Ronald Reagan. He was a great President. We had others, but I said, “Did anybody ever say that to Ronald Reagan or to any of our great…” and to the best of all of these political professionals’ knowledge and pollsters’, nobody’s ever heard that chant before, Matt, so it’s an honor. Believe me, it’s an honor. It’s a great honor. It’s a great honor. When you think about, we love you, you say that about, I hate to say it, am I a politician? I don’t know. Maybe I’m a politician. I hate to admit it, but that’s really… It’s an honor that you would say it.
 We believe in patriotic education and strongly oppose the radical indoctrination of America’s youth. It’s horrible. We are committed to defending innocent life and to upholding the Judeo-Christian values of our founders and of our founding. We embrace free thought. We stand up to political correctives, and we reject left-wing lunacy, and in particular, we reject cancel culture.
 We know that the rule of law is the ultimate safeguard. We affirm that the Constitution means exactly what it says, as written, as written. They want to change it. They want to change it. They want to get rid of it, frankly. We believe in law and order. We believe that the men and women of law enforcement are heroes who truly deserve our absolute support. We don’t defund the police. We are not defunding the police. We believe in standing up to China, shutting down, outsourcing, bringing back our factories and supply chains and ensuring that America, not China, dominates the future of the world. That’s what’s going to happen. By the way, we took in hundreds of billions of dollars from China during my administration, hundreds. They never gave us 25 cents. It was a one-way street. We took in hundreds of billions. During negotiations, they would say, “Look, the one thing, we don’t want any more of these tariffs, these tariffs.” Those tariffs, we took in so much money, and what happened is, they became competitive. What happened with people, they wouldn’t go to China. They’d build a lot of it back in our country. They would make it here instead. In addition to that, we were taking in billions and billions and billions of dollars from China. But in all fairness to China, we made a trade deal with them. This was prior to COVID. Once COVID happened, I no longer cared so much about the trade deal, because what happened with that was just disgraceful.
 But that’s one of the things, that’s one of the reasons that right now our farmers are doing so good. I used to tell China, “Look, look, go and get a lot of wheat. Get a lot of different things, all of the things we just talked about, you better go out and do it, because this country has not been treated fairly by you for many, many years, many, many years.” We used to lose $504 billion trade deficit with China, 504, not million. $504 million is a lot, right? You know that through the World Health Organization. Now take 504 million and make it $504 billion, we had deficits with China. It was absolutely insane that this could keep going. It’s amazing that you still have a country left.
 The people that did this to our country, they should be ashamed of themselves. They should be ashamed of themselves. Companies that leave America to create jobs in China and other countries that have ripped us off for years should not be rewarded. They should be tariffed, fined and punished. They should not be rewarded. That’s what the Biden administration is doing. But of course, as you know, they have a very close, personal relationship with China, so I don’t expect much to happen. It’s a shame, because it really is a threat. It’s a tremendous economic threat. Thank God we’ve rebuilt our military, but it’s a tremendous economic threat. Never forget it. These are the convictions that define our movement today and must define the Republican party in the years ahead. Very simple, it’s really quite simple, isn’t it?
 Another one of the most urgent issues facing the Republican party is that of ensuring fair, honest and secure elections. Such a disgrace, such a disgrace, such a disgrace. We must pass comprehensive election reforms, and we must do it now. The Democrats used the China virus as an excuse to change all of the election rules without the approval of their state legislatures, making it therefore illegal and had a massive impact on the election. Again, you have to go to the legislatures to get these approvals. This alone would have easily changed the outcome of the election at levels that you wouldn’t have even believed. Even with COVID, even with all of the things, the numbers are staggering. We can never let this or other abuses of the 2020 election be repeated or happen again, can never let that happen again. You see what’s going on. We’ve been set back so greatly with other countries and with the world. We need election integrity and election reform immediately. Republicans should be the party of honest elections that can give everyone confidence in the future of our country. Without honest elections, who has confidence? Who has confidence? This issue is being studied and examined. But the reality is you cannot have a situation where ballots are indiscriminately pouring in from all over the country, tens of millions of ballots. Where are they coming from? They’re coming all over the place, where illegal aliens and dead people are voting, and many other horrible things are happening that are too voluminous to even mention, but people know.
 I mean, it’s being studied, and the level of dishonesty is not to be believed. We have a very sick and corrupt electoral process that must be fixed immediately. This election was rigged, and the Supreme Court and other courts didn’t want to do anything about it.
 We did.
 If you just take that one element where they didn’t go through legislatures, it’s illegal. You can’t do it. It’s in the Constitution. They didn’t have the courage, the Supreme Court. They didn’t have the courage to act, but instead, used process and lack of standing. I was told the President of the United States has no standing. It’s my election. It’s your election. We have no standing. If you’re think of it, we had almost 20 states go into the Supreme Court so that we didn’t have a standing problem. They rejected it. They rejected it. They should be ashamed of themselves for what they’ve done to our country. They didn’t have the guts or the courage to make the right decision. They didn’t want to talk about it. You had the case led by the great State of Texas. 18 states went in, “You don’t have standing. Oh, let’s not talk about it.” They didn’t have the guts to do what should be done, and that’s on top of all of the other forms of cheating. But this is the most basic of all, they would have local courts and local politicians change the rules, in some cases, a day or two before the election. This should never be allowed to happen to another presidential candidate or presidential race, should never be allowed to happen.
 Today I want to outline the steps that we must take to have an election system in this country that is honest, fair and accurate. We need one election day, not 45, 30, one day like it’s been. The Republicans don’t get this and the other things I’m going to say, that you should, like the Supreme Court, be ashamed of yourselves. One day, one day, and the only people that should be allowed to vote by mail are people that can be proven to be either very sick, or out of the country, or military where they can’t do it. One day. They have millions and millions of ballots sitting around all over the place for long periods of time. Gee, I wonder what happens with those ballots? I wonder what happens? It’s common sense. It’s a disgrace. It’s an absolute disgrace. There should be a legitimate reason for someone to vote absentee, has to have a reason. We should eliminate the insanity of mass and very corrupt mail-in voting.
 We must have voter ID, voter ID. To get into the Democrat National Convention, when they had the convention, you needed voter ID. You needed an ID card. You couldn’t get in unless you had an ID. So many people told me you can’t get in that place. You need ID. Nobody had ID. You need voter ID. They know that. There’s a con job. They’re conning everybody. They know that. They know the wall was good. They knew the wall would work, but they didn’t want to have it, because we wanted it. I made one big mistake in the wall. I should have said, “We will not have a wall.” Then they would have said, “Let’s build a wall.” I made a big mistake. I made a big mistake. I’m sorry. It took us a year and a half extra. Because of that mistake, we will not have a wall. “We need a wall immediately,” said Chuck Schumer.
 We need universal signature matching. They want to pass a bill where you don’t have to match signatures, where signatures don’t mean anything. Now they know it, just like with the wall, just like with voter ID, when you need to go into anything that’s Democrat run, you need it. But for voting, which is our most sacred institution, you don’t. They don’t want to let you have it. There should be a 100% requirement to verify the citizenship of every person who votes, and there must be a chain of custody protections for every ballot, every ballot. You saw what happened in Detroit and Philadelphia and many other places, swing states mostly, all over, but swing states mostly. You saw what happened? You saw what was going on.
 You saw that more people… You take a look at the votes. When you have more votes than you have people, that’s a problem, right? Is that a problem? We have a little problem adjusting in Detroit. We seem to have more votes than we have people, a lot more votes, an election-changing number. We’re not talking about a number where you catch… No, these are election-changing numbers. In Pennsylvania, they had hundreds of thousands of more votes than they had people voting. What’s that all about? What’s that all about? Cheating, they say. Yeah, I’d say so.
 In the history of our country, and it has taken place for years in Pennsylvania, in Detroit and various other places, but there’s tremendous, never like this, because they used COVID as a way of cheating. That’s what happened, and everybody knows it. Hundreds of thousands and millions of ballots, they used it as a way of getting what they’ve wanted for many years, and the Republicans have to do something about it. They’d better do something about it. Our election process is worse than that, in many cases, of a third-world country. You know that. You saw what was going on.
 Even if you consider nothing else, it is undeniable that election rules were illegally changed at the last minute in almost every swing state, with the procedures rewritten by local politicians… you’re not allowed to do that… and local judges. They want more time. They want this. They want that. All done by local politicians or local judges, as opposed to state legislatures as required by the Constitution of the United States. These are numbers that are massive. These aren’t little numbers. These are numbers that in each state is a transformative number. It changes the outcome of the election, and it’s not close. Regardless of your political views, this should concern you as a constitutional matter. The Supreme court, again, didn’t have the guts or the courage to do anything about it, and neither did other judges.
 Democrats even admitted in Time Magazine, which is I would say on the liberal side, that they couldn’t… They couldn’t hold it in. They had to brag about it, because what they did, they had a brag about it. They couldn’t do it. You got to read this story. It’s a disaster. It’s a disaster for our country that we can allow something so corrupt to happen. Read that article. I really encourage you. You read that article.
 Yet all of the election integrity measures in the world will mean nothing if we don’t have free speech. That’s where we’re at now. If Republicans can be censored for speaking the truth and calling out corruption, we will not have democracy, and we will have only left-wing tyranny. We can do this. We can do this. We’re smarter than they are. We’re tougher than they are. For some reason, we just don’t. We don’t get it done. We let them attack our businesses, and we don’t attack their businesses. I believe your numbers are bigger than their numbers, but you’re nicer than they are. You’re not as vicious as they are.
 In the past, we would debate. I would have it. I’d debate. You’ve seen me for many years. They’d throw something. I debate. They debate. Who knows who wins. People go. They vote. They see what happens, but they would have an idea. They would disagree. The public would hear it. The debate and discourse would take place, and then somebody would make a decision. You would win. You would lose. The public would make up its mind. But now there is no debate, because they refuse to allow our side to even speak or be heard.
 There is no debate because they refuse to allow our side to even speak or be heard. They don’t want debate, because we have easy victories in a debate, very easy victories. It’s is called common sense. It’s called other things, but it’s called common sense. So they don’t want a debate. The time has come to break up big tech monopolies and restore fair competition. Republicans, conservatives must open up our platforms and repeal section 230 liability protections. And if the federal government refuses to act, then every state in the union where we have the votes, which is a lot of them, big tech giants, like Twitter, Google, and Facebook should be punished with major sanctions whenever they silence conservative voices. And governor Ron DeSantis of Florida and in Texas and in other States are doing this. If they do what they’re doing, Florida, and that legislation will pass. And Texas and others will have tremendous power to do what’s right and what’s fair.
 We have no time to waste, Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats in Congress are racing to pass a flagrantly unconstitutional attack on the first amendment and the integrity of our elections known as HR 1. Do you know what HR 1 is? It’s a disaster. Their bill would drastically restrict political speech, empower power the federal government to shut down decent. And turn the Federal Election Commission into a partisan political weapon. In addition, it virtually eliminates voter ID requirements nationwide, effectively ends all registration deadlines. Can you believe this? Requires States to give ballots to felons, automatically registers every welfare recipient to vote, and puts unaccountable unelected bureaucrats in charge of drawing congressional districts. That’s going to be a lot of fun. This monster must be stopped. It cannot be allowed to pass. Now more than ever is the time for tough strong and energetic Republican leaders who have spines of steel. We need strong leadership. We cannot have leaders who show more passion for condemning their fellow Americans than they have ever shown for standing up to Democrats, the media, and the radicals who want to turn America into a socialist country. Instead of attacking me and more importantly the voters of our movement, top establishment Republicans in Washington should be spending their energy in opposing Biden, Pelosi, Schumer, and the Democrats. I’ve said to some of them, I said, “You know, during the Obama years, and now during Biden, if you spent the same energy on attacking them, you’d actually be successful as you do on attacking me, in many cases.” The Democrats don’t have grandstanders like Mitt Romney, little Ben Sasse, Richard Burr, Bill Cassidy, Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski, Pat Toomey, and in the house, Tom Rice, South Carolina, Adam Kinzinger, Dan Newhouse, Anthony Gonzalez. That’s another beauty. Fred Upton, Jaime Herrera Beutler, Peter Meyer, John Katko, David Valadao. And of course the warmonger, a person that loves seeing our troops fighting, Liz Cheney. How about that? The good news is in her state, she’s been censured, and in her state, her poll numbers have dropped faster than any human being I’ve ever seen. So hopefully they’ll get rid of her with the next election. Get rid of them all. Democrats are vicious. Remember this, it’s true. Democrats are vicious.
 He said evil, well, there is evil there, but they’re vicious, they’re smart, and they do one thing. You got to hand it to them. They always stick together. You don’t have Mitt Romney’s in the group. They always stick together. Fortunately, for the Republican party, the Democrats have horrible policies like open borders, sanctuary cities, defunding the police, and the ridiculous, totally ridiculous green new deal. So, they stick together, they’re smart. They’re vicious, they got everything going, but their policies are no good. So hence, we have, congratulations, the Republican party. After this, they may not stick with those policies. We have to be careful. No, their policies are horrible. Think of it, defund the police. How did that work out? But if Republicans do not stick together, the rhinos that we’re surrounded with will destroy the Republican party and the American worker, and will destroy our country itself, the rhinos, Republican in name only, but the Republican party is united. The only division is between a handful of Washington DC establishment political hacks, and everybody else all over the country.
 I think we have tremendous unity. When you look at the crowds outside that want your seats so badly, they will take your seat in two seconds. They want your seat. Congratulations. Congratulations on getting in by the way. I’m very impressed. And that’s why I’m announcing that I will be actively working to elect strong, tough and smart Republican leaders.
 Speaking of that, I heard Jim Jordan did a great job. Right? Thank you. I heard that from Mark Meadows. I heard it, oh, there he is. Look at that. Hi Jim. I heard you were great. In fact, I hated to follow you. I want to follow other people. I could name them too. I like to follow other people. I heard you were great. Thank you Jim, very much. Jim Jordan. A great, great athlete. People don’t know he was a great wrestler, tremendous numbers of victories. He was a champion. He was college champion for a long period of time. He’s a winner and a leader and he doesn’t play games. He likes to win. He likes to win. And we have a lot of people in our party that like to win Jim, right? But I heard you were great, thank you very much. But we want Republican leaders who are loyal to the voters and who will work proudly for the vision that I’ve laid out today. And what is it? So simple, right? So simple, military, law and order, great trade deals, great education. So simple.
 I don’t, does anybody get it? What are they doing? Does anybody get it? It has just been stated that President Trump’s endorsement is the most powerful asset in politics. Do you believe that? Who would’ve thought that was going to happen? Who would have thought that’s going to happen, Jim? In last year’s congressional primaries, 120, listen to this, it’s crazy. 120 of 122 candidates I endorsed won, 120. That’s almost as good as Jim’s wrestling record. And the two that lost were beaten by people claiming to be more Trump than their opponent. So I like those two people very much also. In the Senate, I was undefeated in endorsements with a record of 21 and 0, my endorsement of Mitch McConnell, at his request-
 It’s all right, it’s all right. Now, he made a request. He asked for my endorsement, brought him from one point down to 20 points up, and he won his race in the great state, and actually the great Commonwealth of Kentucky. And he won it very easily. And I said, “I wonder if I’m doing the right thing here.” But you know what? I did what I did. But he went from one point down to 20 points up very quickly, immediately actually. And he won his race. And if you compare that to his other elections, I’m sure you’ll see something interesting. But you know what? We got a Republican elected. And now we have to use Republicans to take care of the election frauds and all of the other things that are happening that shouldn’t be allowed to happen in our country. It’s very simple. Because of my efforts campaigning, we had huge gains in the House, and I helped keep many senators in their seats, and they will admit it, so that it’s now 50/50, instead of Republicans being down anywhere from eight to 10 seats.
 And they’ll admit it, we’d be down eight to 10 seats if I didn’t campaign. We held rallies for some of the senators that were down. And nobody talks about that. Nobody wants to talk, the press doesn’t talk about it. With me at the top of the ticket, not a single Republican member of Congress lost their race for the first time in decades. We won 26 of 26 toss up races. Toss up. Think of that, 26 of 20, and those are toss up. Those are races that could go any way. We were expected to lose 25 seats, and instead we won 15 seats, and almost, oh, why couldn’t we have done a couple of more, almost cost crazy Nancy her job. We’ll do that the next time around. I received almost, listen to this number, because you know, the fake news doesn’t ever talk about these numbers. I just heard this one for the first time. I received almost 1.5 million more votes than all of the Republican House candidates combined.
 So how the hell is it possible that we lost? It’s not possible. I got more votes. I got more, which is me, when I say I, I’m talking about we. We, we got more votes than any incumbent, any incumbent president in the history of our country, almost 75 million votes. And that doesn’t include the votes and ballots they threw out. If you include them, you’ll see numbers that are much different. We did even better in the second election than we did in the first, you know I won the first? And we won the second, we did much better. Sort of strange, right? How did you do? Well, we did much better the second time. Oh, you did? Really? What a disgrace, what a disgrace to our country. I got over 11 million, very close to 12 million more votes than we got in 2016. And I was told by John McLaughlin that if you, the great pollster, that if you get to, we had 63 in 2016, 63 million.
 Sir, if you get to 66 million, you have it made. We got to almost 75 million. Then what the hell happened? What happened? What happened when they closed all of the counting booths? What happened at 3:00 in the morning? What happened at 3:02 in the morning? What happened? No president has ever lost an election after carrying Florida, Ohio, and Iowa. And I won them all. And I won them by a lot. By a lot. I won 94% of the primary vote, no incumbent president who received more than 75% of the primary vote has ever lost an election. I had a record number, and no president has ever, ever, and we’re talking about a much lower number than we got, has ever lost an election. Thanks to my coattails, thank you. We have to have a sense of humor. Thanks to my coattails, democrats failed to flip a single state legislature. Think of it, or a legislative chamber, because Republicans came out to vote for me. Now they say it differently. The press, the fake news spins it differently.
 They say, “Despite how well they did, Trump didn’t win.” That’s such a lie. And many legislators, many legislators told me, they said, they were going to lose their race. It wasn’t going to happen. And then what happened is one in particular told me from a great swing state, said, “You know, I thought I was going to lose my position, lose my race. And I went out with my wife the night before the election. And I saw all these Trump signs and the American flags and the spirits on the streets.” I said, “You know, darling, I think we’re going to win.” He said, “But you were far, far, far more popular than me.” They do lots of polls. You were way, way ahead of me, sir. And the next day I was right. He said, he won the election by a lot, and you lost the election. And sir, it’s not possible that you lost, because you got a lower number than I did. And you were so far ahead of me. You’re the person that brought everybody out to vote.
 And I happen to agree with that 1, 000%. never forget that conversation. He couldn’t believe it. And I’ve heard it from more than one. And in November, 18 of 19 bellwether counties, you heard about the bellwether counties? 18 of 19 bellwether counties that have correctly predicted every presidential election election for decades. Many decades, voted for Trump, not for Biden. And it was a shocker to those people that go for the stats. It was a shocker. They voted for Trump, 18 of 19 voted for Trump. There’s never been anything like that. And yet did Biden win? No. If you want to help us take back the future of our country, go to DonaldJTrump.com. I don’t do this. I’ve never done this, but it’s time that we have to put forces together, because these people with their big tech and their fake news media right back there, okay? And you know, when you talk about election, they turn off.
 When you talk about, they probably have them going, because they also care about ratings. But when they talk about election, they turn off the cameras. You know why? It’s a very sore subject, okay? They don’t like that subject. There’s only one way to contribute to our efforts, to elect America first Republican conservatives, and in turn to make America great again, and that’s through Save America, PAC, and DonaldJTrump.com. So go out there and do whatever you can because we’re going to help a lot of great people. We know the right people to help. We need your help to win, and to fight big tech and the radical left and the DC establishment. We need to save your second amendment, which is under siege. We need to help protect funding for our military and for our great vets. And that’s what we’re doing. As we discussed earlier, we’re in a struggle for the survival of America as we know it. This is a struggle. This is a terrible, terrible, painful struggle. The path ahead will not be easy, but we will win. We are going to win. Ultimately we always win.
 And when we do, history will show that this was the moment when we could have given up, when we could have despaired. But instead, we chose to keep on pushing forward. The greater the challenge and tougher the task, the more determined we must be to pull through to triumph. We have to have triumph. We have to have victory. With the talent and dedication of everyone here today, and you have tremendous, not only dedication, tremendous talent in this room. I know many of you. That is exactly what we will do. We will go on to victory. We will summon the spirit of generations of American Patriots before us, like those heroes who crossed the Delaware, conquered the Rockies, stormed the beaches, won the battles, and tamed the unknown frontiers. We will persist, and we will prevail. We’re tougher than they are. We’re stronger than they are. Together, in the coming years, we will carry forward the torch of American Liberty. We will lead the conservative movement and the Republican party back to a totally conclusive victory.
 And we’ve had tremendous victories. Don’t ever forget it. With your help, we will take back the House. We will win the Senate. And then, a Republican president will make a triumphant return to the White House. And I wonder who that will be? I wonder who that will be? Who, who, who will that be? I wonder. Standing before you today, I am supremely confident that for our movement, for our party, and for our country, our brightest days are just ahead. And that together we will make America prouder, freer, stronger and greater than it ever has been before. Thank you CPAC, God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, and we love you. And I can tell you that from the bottom of my heart, this has been an incredible four years. We’ve accomplished so much together. I want to thank all of my family, and my friends, and my staff, and so many other people for being here. I want to thank you for your effort, your hard work. People have no idea how hard this family worked. They worked. And they worked for you. They could have had a much easier life, but they just did a fantastic job, I just want to thank all of you, everyone. I want to thank Mark Meadows, who’s here someplace right there. I want to thank Mark., But it’s been been something very special. We’ve accomplished a lot. Our First Lady has been a woman of great grace and beauty and dignity.
 And so popular with the people. So popular with the people. In fact, honey, would you like to say a few words?
 What else has to be said, right? But what we’ve done… That’s true, honey. Great job. What we’ve done has been amazing by any standard. We rebuilt the United States military. We created a new force called Space Force. That in itself would be a major achievement for a regular administration. We were not a regular administration. We took care of the vets, 91% approval rating. They’ve never had that before. The vets have given us, the VA, the vets have given us an approval rating like has never been before. We took care of our vets, and our beautiful vets. They were very badly treated before we came along. And as you know, we get them great service and we pick up the bill, and they can go out and they can see a doctor if they have to wait long periods of time. We got it so that we can sadly get rid of people that don’t treat our vets properly. We didn’t have any of those rights before when I came on. So our vets are happy. Our people are happy. Our military is thrilled.
 We also got tax cuts, the largest tax cut and reform in the history of our country by far. I hope they don’t raise your taxes, but if they do, I told you so. And if you look at the regulations, which I consider the regulation cuts to be maybe even more important, that’s why we have such good and have had such good job numbers. And job numbers have been absolutely incredible. When we started, had we not been hit by the pandemic, we would have had numbers that would never have been seen. Already, our numbers are the best ever. If you look at what happened until February a year ago, our numbers were at a level that nobody had ever seen before. And even now, we really built it twice. We got hit. Nobody blames us for that. The whole world got hit, and then we built it again. And now the stock market is actually substantially higher than it was at its higher point prior to the pandemic. So it’s a really, you could say we built it twice. And you’re going to see incredible numbers start coming in, if everything is sort of left alone. Be careful, very complex, be careful, but you’re going to see some incredible things happening.
 And remember us when you see these things happening, if you would. Remember us because I’m looking at elements of our economy that are set to be a rocket ship up. It’s a rocket ship up. We have the greatest country in the world. We have the greatest economy in the world. And as bad as the pandemic was, we were hit so hard just like the entire world was hit so hard. Places that thought they got away with it, didn’t get away with it. They’re suffering right now.
 We did something that is a really considered a medical miracle. They’re calling it a miracle. And that was the vaccine. We got the vaccine developed in nine months instead of nine years, or five years, or 10 years, or a long time. It was supposed to take a long time, many, many years to develop a vaccine. We have two out, we have another one coming almost immediately, and it really is a great achievement. So you should start to see really good numbers over the next few months. I think you’re going to see those numbers really skyrocket downward. And I can only say this. We have worked hard. We’ve left it all, as the athletes would say, we’ve left it all on the field. We don’t have to come and say… We’ll never say in a month, when we’re sitting in Florida, we’re not going to be looking at each other and saying, “You know, if we only worked a little bit harder.” You can’t work harder.
 And we had a lot of obstacles, and we went through the obstacles and we just got 75 million votes. And that’s a record in the history of sitting presidents. That’s an all time record by a lot, by many millions, in the history of sitting presidents. It’s been really just an honor. And one of the things we’re very, very proud of is the selection of almost 300 federal judges and three great Supreme Court justices. That’s a very big number. That’s a record setting number. And so we’ve done a lot, and there’s still things to do.
 The first thing we have to do is pay our respects and our love to the incredible people and families who’ve suffered so gravely from the China Virus. It’s a horrible thing that was put onto the world. We all know where it came from, but it’s a horrible, horrible thing. So be very careful, be very, very careful. But we want to pay a great love, great love to all of the people that have suffered, including families who have suffered so gravely. So with that, I just want to say you are amazing people. This is a great, great country. It is my greatest honor and privilege to have been your president.
 I will always fight for you. I will be watching. I will be listening. And I will tell you that the future of this country has never been better. I wish the new administration great luck and great success. I think they’ll have great success. They have the foundation to do something really spectacular. And again, we put it in a position like it’s never been before, despite the worst plague to hit, since I guess you’d say 1917, over a hundred years ago. And despite that, despite that, the things that we’ve done have been just incredible and I couldn’t have done it without you. So just a goodbye. We love you. We will be back in some form.
 And again, I want to just in leaving, I want to thank our Vice President, Mike Pence, and Karen. I want to thank Congress, because we really worked well with Congress, at least certain elements of Congress. But we really did. We’ve gotten so much done that nobody thought would be possible, but I do want to thank Congress. And I want to thank all of the great people of Washington, DC. All of the people that we worked with to put this miracle together. So have a good life. We will see you soon. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 My fellow Americans, four years ago we launched a great national effort to rebuild our country, to renew its spirit, and to restore the allegiance of this government to its citizens. In short, we embarked on a mission to make America great again for all Americans. As I conclude my term as the 45th President of the United States, I stand before you truly proud of what we have achieved together. We did what we came here to do, and so much more. This week we inaugurate a new administration and pray for its success in keeping America safe and prosperous. We extend our best wishes, and we also want them to have luck, a very important word.
 I’d like to begin by thanking just a few of the amazing people who made our remarkable journey possible. First, let me express my overwhelming gratitude for the love and support of our spectacular First Lady Melania. Let me also share my deepest appreciation to my daughter, Ivanka, my son-in-law Jared, and to Baron, Don, Eric, Tiffany, and Lara. You fill my world with light and with joy. I also want to thank Vice President Mike Pence, his wonderful wife, Karen, and the entire Pence family. Thank you as well to my chief of staff, Mark Meadows, the dedicated members of the White House staff, and the cabinet, and all of the incredible people across our administration who poured out their heart and soul to fight for America.
 I also want to take a moment to thank a truly exceptional group of people, the United States Secret Service. My family and I will forever be in your debt. My profound gratitude as well to everyone in the White House military office, the teams of Marine One and Air Force One, every member of the armed forces, and state and local law enforcement all across our country. Most of all, I want to thank the American people. To serve as your president has been an honor beyond description. Thank you for this extraordinary privilege. And that’s what it is, a great privilege and a great honor. We must never forget that while Americans will always have our disagreements, we are a nation of incredible, decent, faithful, and peace-loving citizens who all want our country to thrive and flourish and be very, very successful and good. We are a truly magnificent nation.
 All Americans were horrified by the assault on our capital. Political violence is an attack on everything we cherish as Americans. It can never be tolerated. Now more than ever, we must unify around our shared values and rise above the partisan rancor and forge our common destiny. Four years ago, I came to Washington as the only true outsider ever to win the presidency. I had not spent my career as a politician, but as a builder looking at open skylines and imagining infinite possibilities. I ran for president because I knew there were towering new summits for America just waiting to be scaled. I knew the potential for our nation was boundless as long as we put America first. So I left behind my former life and stepped into a very difficult arena, but an arena, nevertheless, with all sorts of potential if properly done.
 America had given me so much and I wanted to give something back. Together with millions of hardworking Patriots across this land, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country. We also built the greatest economy in the history of the world. It was about America first because we all wanted to make America great again. We restored the principle that a nation exists to serve its citizens. Our agenda was not about right or left. It wasn’t about Republican or Democrat, but about the good of a nation, and that means the whole nation. With the support and prayers of the American people, we achieved more than anyone thought possible. Nobody thought we could even come close. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We slashed more job-killing regulations than any administration had ever done before.
 We fix our broken trade deals, withdrew from the horrible Trans-Pacific Partnership and the impossible Paris Climate Accord, renegotiated the one-sided South Korea deal. And we replaced NAFTA with the groundbreaking USMCA, that’s Mexico and Canada, a deal that’s worked out very, very well. Also and very importantly, we imposed historic and monumental tariffs on China, made a great new deal with China. But before the ink was even dry, we and the whole world got hit with the China virus.
 Our trade relationship was rapidly changing. Billions and billions of dollars were pouring into the US but the virus forced us to go in a different direction. The whole world suffered, but America outperformed other countries economically because of our incredible economy and the economy that we built. Without the foundations and footings, it wouldn’t have worked out this way. We wouldn’t have some of the best numbers we’ve ever had. We also unlocked our energy resources and became the world’s number one producer of oil and natural gas by far. Powered by these policies, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world. We reignited America’s job creation and achieved record-low unemployment for African-Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, women, almost everyone. Income soared, wages boomed. The American dream was restored and millions were lifted from poverty in just a few short years. It was a miracle.
 The stock market set one record after another, with 148 stock market highs during the short period of time, and boosted the retirements and pensions of hardworking citizens all across our nation. 401(k)s are at a level they’ve never been at before. We’ve never seen numbers like we’ve seen, and that’s before the pandemic and after the pandemic. We rebuilt the American manufacturing base, opened up thousands of new factories, and brought back the beautiful phrase Made in the USA. To make life better for working families, we doubled the child tax credit and signed the largest-ever expansion of funding for childcare and development. We joined with the private sector to secure commitments to train more than 16 million American workers for the jobs of tomorrow.
 When our nation was hit with the terrible pandemic, we produced not one, but two vaccines with record-breaking speed and more will quickly follow. They said it couldn’t be done, but we did it. They called it a medical miracle. And that’s what they’re calling it right now, a medical miracle. Another administration would have taken three, four, five, maybe even up to 10 years to develop a vaccine. We did it in nine months. We grieve for every life lost and we pledge in their memory to wipe out this horrible pandemic once and for all.
 When the virus took its brutal toll on the world’s economy, we launched the fastest economic recovery our country has ever seen. We passed nearly $4 trillion in economic relief, saved or supported over 50 million jobs, and slashed the unemployment rate in half. These are numbers that our country has never seen before. We created choice and transparency in healthcare, stood up to big pharma in so many ways, but especially in our effort to get favored nations clauses added, which will give us the lowest prescription drug prices anywhere in the world. We passed VA Choice, VA Accountability, Right to Try, and landmark criminal justice reform.
 We confirmed three new justices of the United States Supreme Court. We appointed nearly 300 federal judges to interpret our Constitution as written. For years, the American people pleaded with Washington to finally secure the nation’s borders. I am pleased to say, we answered that plea and achieved the most secure border in US history. We have given our brave border agents and heroic ICE officers the tools they need to do their jobs better than they have ever done before and to enforce our laws and keep America safe. We proudly leave the next administration with the strongest and most robust border security measures ever put into place. This includes historic agreements with Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, along with more than 450 miles of powerful new wall.
 We restored American strength at home and American leadership abroad. The world respects us again. Please don’t lose that respect. We reclaimed our sovereignty by standing up for America at the United Nations and withdrawing from the one-sided global deals that never served our interests. And NATO countries are now paying hundreds of billions of dollars more than when I arrived just a few years ago. It was very unfair. We were paying the cost for the world. Now the world is helping us.
 And perhaps most importantly of all, with nearly $3 trillion, we fully rebuilt the American military, all made in the USA. We launched the first new branch of the United States Armed Forces in 75 years, the Space Force. And last spring, I stood at Kennedy Space Center in Florida and watched as American astronauts returned to space on American rockets for the first time in many, many years.
 We revitalize our alliances and rallied the nations of the world to stand up to China like never before. We obliterated the ISIS caliphate and ended the wretched life of its founder and leader al-Baghdadi. We stood up to the oppressive Iranian regime and killed the world’s top terrorist, Iranian butcher, Qassem Soleimani. We recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. As a result of our bold diplomacy and principled realism, we achieved a series of historic peace deals in the Middle East. Nobody believed it could happen. The Abraham Accords opened the doors to a future of peace and harmony, not violence and bloodshed. It is the dawn of a new Middle East, and we are bringing our soldiers home. I am especially proud to be the first president in decades who has started no new wars.
 Above all, we have reasserted the sacred idea that in America the government answers to the people. Our guiding light, our North star, our unwavering conviction has been that we are here to serve the noble everyday citizens of America. Our allegiance is not to the special interests corporations or global entities, it’s to our children, our citizens, and to our nation itself. As president my top priority, my constant concern has always been the best interests of American workers and American families. I did not seek the easiest course. By far, it was actually the most difficult. I did not seek the path that would get the least criticism. I took on the tough battles, the hardest fights, the most difficult choices because that’s what you elected me to do. Your needs were my first and last unyielding focus. This, I hope, will be our greatest legacy.
 Together, we put the American people back in charge of our country. We restored self-government. We restored the idea that in America no one is forgotten because everyone matters and everyone has a voice. We fought for the principle that every citizen is entitled to equal dignity, equal treatment, and equal rights because we are all made equal by God. Everyone is entitled to be treated with respect, to have their voice heard, and to have the government listen. You are loyal to your country and my administration was always loyal to you.
 We worked to build a country in which every citizen could find a great job and support their wonderful families. We fought for the communities where every American could be safe and schools where every child could learn. We promoted a culture where our laws would be upheld, our heroes honored, our history preserved, and law-abiding citizens are never taken for granted. Americans should take tremendous satisfaction in all that we have achieved together. It’s incredible.
 Now, as I leave the white house, I have been reflecting on the dangers that threaten the priceless inheritance we all share. As the world’s most powerful nation, America faces constant threats and challenges from abroad. But the greatest danger we face is a loss of confidence in ourselves, a loss of confidence in our national greatness. A nation is only as strong as its spirit. We are only as dynamic as our pride. We are only as vibrant as the faith that beats in the hearts of our people. No nation can long thrive that loses faith in its own values, history, and heroes for these are the very sources of our unity and our vitality.
 What has always allowed America to prevail and triumph over the great challenges of the past has been an unyielding and unashamed conviction in the nobility of our country and its unique purpose in history. We must never lose this conviction. We must never forsake our belief in America. The key to national greatness lies in sustaining and instilling our shared national identity. That means focusing on what we have in common, the heritage that we all share. At the center of this heritage is also a robust belief in free expression, free speech, and open debate. Only if we forget who we are and how we got here could we ever allow political censorship and blacklisting to take place in America. It’s not even thinkable. Shutting down free and open debate violates our core values and most enduring traditions.
 In America, we don’t insist on absolute conformity or enforce rigid orthodoxies and punitive speech codes. We just don’t do that. America is not a timid nation of tame souls who need to be sheltered and protected from those with whom we disagree. That’s not who we are. It will never be who we are. For nearly 250 years in the face of every challenge, Americans have always summoned our unmatched courage, confidence, and fierce independence. These are the miraculous traits that once led millions of everyday citizens to set out across a wild continent and carve out a new life in the great West. It was the same profound love of our God-given freedom that willed our soldiers into battle and our astronauts into space.
 As I think back on the past four years, one image rises in my mind above all others. Whenever I traveled all along the motorcade route, there were thousands and thousands of people. They came out with their families so that they could stand as we passed and proudly wave our great American flag. It never failed to deeply move me. I knew that they did not just come out to show their support of me. They came out to show me their support and love for our country. This is a republic of proud citizens who are united by our common conviction, that America is the greatest nation in all of history.
 We are and must always be a land of hope, of light, and of glory to all the world. This is the precious inheritance that we must safeguard at every single turn. For the past four years, I have worked to do just that. From a great hall of Muslim leaders in Riyadh to a great square of Polish people in Warsaw, from the floor of the Korean Assembly to the podium at the United Nations General Assembly, and from the forbidden city in Beijing to the shadow of Mount Rushmore, I fought for you. I fought for your family. I fought for our country. Above all, I fought for America and all it stands for, and that is safe, strong, proud, and free.
 Now, as I prepare to hand power over to a new administration at noon on Wednesday, I want you to know that the movement we started is only just beginning. There’s never been anything like it. The belief that a nation must serve its citizens will not dwindle, but instead, only grows stronger by the day. As long as the American people hold in their hearts, deep and devoted love of country, then there is nothing that this nation can not achieve. Our communities will flourish. Our people will be prosperous. Our traditions will be cherished. Our faith will be strong and our future will be brighter than ever before. I go from this majestic place with a loyal and joyful heart, an optimistic spirit, and a supreme confidence that for our country and for our children, the best is yet to come. Thank you and farewell. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.
 My fellow Americans, I want to speak to you tonight about the troubling events of the past week. As I have said, the incursion of the US Capitol struck at the very heart of our Republic. It angered and appalled millions of Americans across the political spectrum. I want to be very clear, I unequivocally condemn the violence that we saw last week. Violence and vandalism have absolutely no place in our country and no place in our movement.
 Making America Great Again has always been about defending the rule of law, supporting the men and women of law enforcement and upholding our nation’s most sacred traditions and values. Mob violence goes against everything I believe in and everything our movement stands for. No true supporter of mine could ever endorse political violence. No true supporter of mine could ever disrespect law enforcement or our great American flag. No true supporter of mine could ever threaten or harass their fellow Americans. If you do any of these things, you are not supporting our movement, you are attacking it and you are attacking our country. We can not tolerate it.
 Tragically, over the course of the past year made so difficult because of COVID-19, we have seen political violence spiral out of control. We have seen too many riots, too many mobs, too many acts of intimidation and destruction. It must stop. Whether you are on the right or on the left, a Democrat or a Republican, there is never a justification for violence, no excuses, no exceptions. America is a nation of laws. Those who engaged in the attacks last week will be brought to justice.
 Now I am asking everyone who has ever believed in our agenda to be thinking of ways to ease tensions, calm tempers, and help to promote peace in our country. There has been reporting that additional demonstrations are being planned in the coming days, both here in Washington and across the country. I have been briefed by the US Secret Service on the potential threats. Every American deserves to have their voice heard in a respectful and peaceful way. That is your First Amendment Right. But I cannot emphasize that there must be no violence, no law breaking and no vandalism of any kind.
 Everyone must follow our laws and obey the instructions of law enforcement. I have directed federal agencies to use all necessary resources to maintain order. In Washington, D.C., We are bringing in thousands of National Guard members to secure the city and ensure that a transition can occur safely and without incident. Like all of you, I was shocked and deeply saddened by the calamity at the Capitol last week. I want to thank the hundreds of millions of incredible American citizens who have responded to this moment with calm, moderation and grace. We will get through this challenge just like we always do.
 I also want to say a few words about the unprecedented assault on free speech we have seen in recent days. These are tense and difficult times. The efforts to censor, cancel and blacklist our fellow citizens are wrong and they are dangerous. What is needed now is for us to listen to one another, not to silence one another. All of us can choose by our actions to rise above the ranker and find common ground and shared purpose. We must focus on advancing the interests of the whole nation, delivering the miracle vaccines, defeating the pandemic, rebuilding the economy, protecting our national security and upholding the rule of law.
 Today, I am calling on all Americans to overcome the passions of the moment and join together as one American people. Let us choose to move forward united for the good of our families, our communities, and our country. Thank you. God bless you and God bless America.
 We’re going to Texas. We’re going to the Southern border. As you know, we completed the wall. They may want to expand it. We have the expansion underway. It’s been tremendously successful far beyond what anyone thought. We’re stopping in large numbers the drugs coming into the country for many, many years and decades. We’re stopping a lot of illegal immigration. Our numbers have been very good. There does seem to be a surge now because people are coming up. So caravans are starting to form because they think there’s going to be a lot in it for them, if they’re able to get through, but we’re able to stop it.
 The wall has made a tremendous difference. I think some of you are coming with me, but the wall has made a tremendous difference on the Southern border. As far as this is concerned, we want no violence, never violence. We want absolutely no violence. And on the impeachment, it’s really a continuation of the greatest witch hunt in the history of politics. It’s ridiculous. It’s absolutely ridiculous. This impeachment is causing tremendous anger as you’re doing it. And it’s really a terrible thing that they’re doing. For Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer to continue on this path, I think it’s causing tremendous danger to our country and it’s causing tremendous anger. I want no violence. Thank you very much. Thank you everybody.
 [crosstalk 00:01:39].
 I think that big tech is doing a horrible thing for our country, and to our country. And I believe it is going to be a catastrophic mistake for them. They’re dividing and divisive and they’re showing something that I’ve been predicting for a long time. I’ve been predicting it for a long time and people didn’t act on it. But I think big tech has made a terrible mistake and very, very bad for our country. And that’s leading others to do the same thing. And it causes a lot of problems and a lot of danger, a big mistake. They shouldn’t be doing it, but there’s always a countermove when they do that. I’ve never seen such anger as I see right now, and that’s a terrible thing, terrible thing. And you have to always avoid violence. And we have tremendous support. We have support probably like nobody’s ever seen before. Always have to avoid violence.
 So if you read my speech and many people have done it and I’ve seen it both in the papers and in the media on television, it’s been analyzed and people thought that what I said was totally appropriate. And if you look at what other people have said, politicians at a high level, about the riots during the summer, the horrible riots in Portland and Seattle and various other places. That was a real problem, what they said, but they’ve analyzed my speech and my words and my final paragraph, my final sentence. And everybody to the T thought it was totally appropriate. Okay, thank you.
 I would like to begin by addressing the heinous attack on the United States Capitol. Like all Americans, I am outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem. I immediately deployed the National Guard and federal law enforcement to secure the building and expel the intruders. America is and must always be a nation of law and order.
 The demonstrators who infiltrated the Capitol have defiled the seat of American democracy. To those who engaged in the acts of violence and destruction, you do not represent our country. And to those who broke the law, you will pay. We have just been through an intense election and emotions are high, but now tempers must be cooled and calm restored. We must get on with the business of America.
 My campaign vigorously pursued every legal avenue to contest the election results. My only goal was to ensure the integrity of the vote. In so doing, I was fighting to defend American democracy. I continue to strongly believe that we must reform our election laws to verify the identity and eligibility of all voters and to ensure faith and confidence in all future elections.
 Now Congress has certified the results. A new administration will be inaugurated on January 20th. My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition of power.
 This moment calls for healing and reconciliation. 2020 has been a challenging time for our people. A menacing pandemic has upended the lives of our citizens, isolated millions in their homes, damaged our economy, and claimed countless lives. Defeating this pandemic and rebuilding the greatest economy on earth will require all of us working together. It will require a renewed emphasis on the civic values of patriotism, faith, charity, community, and family. We must revitalize the sacred bonds of love and loyalty that bind us together as one national family.
 To the citizens of our country, serving as your president has been the honor of my lifetime. And to all of my wonderful supporters, I know you are disappointed, but I also want you to know that our incredible journey is only just beginning.
 Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America.
 I know your pain. I know you’re hurt. We had an election that was stolen from us. It was a landslide election, and everyone knows it, especially the other side, but you have to go home now. We have to have peace. We have to have law and order. We have to respect our great people in law and order. We don’t want anybody hurt. It’s a very tough period of time. There’s never been a time like this where such a thing happened, where they could take it away from all of us, from me, from you, from our country. This was a fraudulent election, but we can’t play into the hands of these people. We have to have peace. So go home. We love you. You’re very special. You’ve seen what happens. You see the way others are treated that are so bad and so evil. I know how you feel. But go home and go home at peace.
 The media will not show the magnitude of this crowd. Even I, when I turned on today, I looked, and I saw thousands of people here, but you don’t see hundreds of thousands of people behind you because they don’t want to show that. We have hundreds of thousands of people here, and I just want them to be recognized by the fake news media. Turn your cameras please and show what’s really happening out here because these people are not going to take it any longer. They’re not going to take it any longer. Go ahead. Turn your cameras, please. Would you show? They came from all over the world, actually, but they came from all over our country. I just really want to see what they do. I just want to see how they covered. I’ve never seen anything like it. But it would be really great if we could be covered fairly by the media. The media is the biggest problem we have as far as I’m concerned, single biggest problem, the fake news and the big tech. Big tech is now coming into their own. We beat them four years ago. We surprised them. We took them by surprise and this year, they rigged an election. They rigged it like they’ve never rigged an election before. By the way, last night, they didn’t do a bad job either, if you notice. I’m honest. I just, again, I want to thank you. It’s just a great honor to have this kind of crowd and to be before you. Hundreds of thousands of American patriots are committed to the honesty of our elections and the integrity of our glorious Republic. All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by emboldened radical left Democrats, which is what they’re doing and stolen by the fake news media. That’s what they’ve done and what they’re doing. We will never give up. We will never concede, it doesn’t happen. You don’t concede when there’s theft involved.
 Our country has had enough. We will not take it anymore and that’s what this is all about. To use a favorite term that all of you people really came up with, we will stop the steal. Today I will lay out just some of the evidence proving that we won this election, and we won it by a landslide. This was not a close election. I say sometimes jokingly, but there’s no joke about it, I’ve been in two elections. I won them both and the second one, I won much bigger than the first. Almost 75 million people voted for our campaign, the most of any incumbent president by far in the history of our country, 12 million more people than four years ago. I was told by the real pollsters, we do have real pollsters. They know that we were going to do well, and we were going to win. What I was told, if I went from 63 million, which we had four years ago to 66 million, there was no chance of losing. Well, we didn’t go to 66. We went to 75 million and they say we lost. We didn’t lose.
 By the way, does anybody believe that Joe had 80 million votes? Does anybody believe that? He had 80 million computer votes. It’s a disgrace. There’s never been anything like that. You could take third world countries. Just take a look, take third world countries. Their elections are more honest than what we’ve been going through in this country. It’s a disgrace. It’s a disgrace. Even when you look at last night, they’re all running around like chickens with their heads cut off with boxes. Nobody knows what the hell is going on. There’s never been anything like this. We will not let them silence your voices. We’re not going to let it happen. Not going to let it happen.
 Thank you. I’d love to have, if those tens of thousands of people would be allowed, the military, the secret service, and we want to thank you, and the police law enforcement. Great. You’re doing a great job, but I’d love it if they could be allowed to come up here with us. Is that possible? Can you just let them come up, please? Rudy, you did a great job. He’s got guts. You know what? He’s got guts, unlike a lot of people in the Republican party. He’s got guts, he fights. He fights, and I’ll tell you. Thank you very much, John. Fantastic job. I watched. That’s a tough act to follow, those two. John is one of the most brilliant lawyers in the country, and he looked at this and he said, ” What an absolute disgrace, that this could be happening to our constitution.” He looked at Mike Pence, and I hope Mike is going to do the right thing.
 I hope so. I hope so because if Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election. All he has to do. This is from the number one or certainly one of the top constitutional lawyers in our country. He has the absolute right to do it. We’re supposed to protect our country, support our country, support our constitution, and protect our constitution. States want to revote. The States got defrauded. They were given false information. They voted on it. Now they want to recertify. They want it back. All Vice-President Pence has to do is send it back to the States to recertify, and we become president, and you are the happiest people.
 I just spoke to Mike. I said, “Mike, that doesn’t take courage. What takes courage is to do nothing. That takes courage,” and then we’re stuck with a president who lost the election by a lot, and we have to live with that for four more years. We’re just not going to let that happen. Many of you have traveled from all across the nation to be here, and I want to thank you for the extraordinary love. That’s what it is. There’s never been a movement like this ever, ever for the extraordinary love for this amazing country and this amazing movement. Thank you.
 By the way, this goes all the way back past the Washington monument. Do you believe this? Look at this. Unfortunately, they gave the press the prime seats. I can’t stand that. No, but you look at that behind. I wish they’d flip those cameras and look behind you. That is the most amazing sight. When they make a mistake, you get to see it on television. Amazing, amazing, all the way back. Don’t worry. We will not take the name off the Washington monument. We will not. Cancel culture. They wanted to get rid of the Jefferson Memorial, either take it down or just put somebody else in there. I don’t think that’s going to happen. It damn well better not. Although with this administration, if this happens, it could happen. You’ll see some really bad things happen.
 They’ll knock out Lincoln too, by the way. They’ve been taking his statue down, but then we signed a little law. You hurt our monuments, you hurt our heroes, you go to jail for 10 years and everything stopped. Did you notice that? It stopped. It all stopped. They could use Rudy back in New York City. Rudy, they could use you. Your city is going to hell. They want Rudy Giuliani back in New York. We’ll get a little younger version of Rudy. Is that okay, Rudy?
 We’re gathered together in the heart of our nation’s Capitol for one very, very basic and simple reason, to save our democracy. Most candidates on election evening, and of course this thing goes on so long, they still don’t have any idea what the votes are. We still have congressional seats under review. They have no idea. They’ve totally lost control. They’ve used the pandemic as a way of defrauding the people in a proper election. But when you see this and when you see what’s happening, number one, they all say, “Sir, we’ll never let it happen again.” I said, “That’s good, but what about eight weeks ago?” They try and get you to go. They say, “Sir, in four years, you’re guaranteed.” I said, “I’m not interested right now. Do me a favor, go back eight weeks. I want to go back eight weeks. Let’s go back eight week.” We want to go back, and we want to get this right because we’re going to have somebody in there that should not be in there and our country will be destroyed, and we’re not going to stand for that.
 For years, Democrats have gotten away with election fraud and weak Republicans, and that’s what they are. There’s so many weak Republicans. We have great ones, Jim Jordan, and some of these guys. They’re out there fighting the House. Guys are fighting, but it’s incredible. Many of the Republicans, I helped them get in. I helped them get elected. I helped Mitch get elected. I could name 24 of them, let’s say. I won’t bore you with it, and then all of a sudden you have something like this. It’s like, “Gee, maybe I’ll talk to the president sometime later.” No, it’s amazing. The weak Republicans, they’re pathetic Republicans and that’s what happens. If this happened to the Democrats, there’d be hell all over the country going on. There’d be hell all over the country. But just remember this. You’re stronger, you’re smarter. You’ve got more going than anybody, and they try and demean everybody having to do with us, and you’re the real people. You’re the people that built this nation. You’re not the people that tore down our nation.
 The weak Republicans, and that’s it. I really believe it. I think I’m going to use the term, the weak Republicans. You got a lot of them, and you got a lot of great ones, but you got a lot of weak ones. They’ve turned a blind eye even as Democrats enacted policies that chipped away our jobs, weakened our military, threw open our borders and put America last. Did you see the other day where Joe Biden said, “I want to get rid of the America first policy.” What’s that all about, get rid of …? How do you say, “I want to get rid of America first?” Even if you’re going to do it, don’t talk about it. Unbelievable, what we have to go through, what we have to go through and you have to get your people to fight. If they don’t fight, we have to primary the hell out of the ones that don’t fight. You primary them. We’re going to let you know who they are. I can already tell you, frankly.
 But this year using the pretext of the China virus and the scam of mail-in ballots, Democrats attempted the most brazen and outrageous election theft. There’s never been anything like this. It’s a pure theft in American history, everybody knows it. That election, our election was over at 10:00 in the evening. We’re leading Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia by hundreds of thousands of votes, and then late in the evening or early in the morning, boom, these explosions of and bullshit, and all of a sudden. All of a sudden it started to happen.
 Don’t forget when Romney got beat. Romney. I wonder if he enjoyed his flight in last night? But when Romney got beaten, he stands up like you’re more typical. Well, I’d like to congratulate the victor, the victor. Who was the victor, Mitt? I’d like to congratulate. They don’t go and look at the facts. Now I don’t know. He got slaughtered probably, maybe it was okay. Maybe it was that’s what happened. But we look at the facts and our lecture was so corrupt that in the history of this country, we’ve never seen anything like it. You can go all the way back. America is blessed with elections all over the world. They talk about our elections. You know what the world says about us now? They said we don’t have free and fair elections and you know what else? We don’t have a free and fair press.
 Our media is not free. It’s not fair. It suppresses thought. It suppresses speech, and it’s become the enemy of the people. It’s become the enemy of the people. It’s the biggest problem we have in this country. No third world countries would even attempt to do what we caught them doing and you’ll hear about that in just a few minutes. Republicans are constantly fighting like a boxer with his hands tied behind his back. It’s like a boxer, and we want to be so nice. We want to be so respectful of everybody, including bad people. We’re going to have to fight much harder and Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us. If he doesn’t, that will be a sad day for our country because you’re sworn to uphold our constitution. Now it is up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our democracy. After this, we’re going to walk down and I’ll be there with you. We’re going to walk down. We’re going to walk down any one you want, but I think right here. We’re going walk down to the Capitol, and we’re going to cheer on our brave senators, and congressmen and women. We’re probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them because you’ll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength, and you have to be strong.
 We have come to demand that Congress do the right thing and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated, lawfully slated. I know that everyone here will soon be marching over to the Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard. Today we will see whether Republicans stand strong for integrity of our elections, but whether or not they stand strong for our country, our country. Our country has been under siege for a long time, far longer than this four-year period. We’ve set it on a much straighter course, a much … I thought four more years. I thought it would be easy. We created-
 Four more years, I thought it would be easy. We created the greatest economy in history. We rebuilt our military. We get you the biggest tax cuts in history. We got you the biggest regulation cuts. There’s no President, whether it’s four years, eight years, or in one case more, got anywhere near the regulation cuts. It used to take 20 years to get a highway approved. now we’re down to two. I want to get it down to one, but we’re down to two. And it may get rejected for environmental or safety reasons, but we got it down the safety. We created Space Force. Look at what we did. Our military has been totally rebuilt. So we create Space Force, which by in of itself is a major achievement for an administration. And with us, it’s one of so many different things.
 Right to try. Everybody know about right to try. We did things that nobody ever thought possible. We took care of our vets. Our vets, the VA now has the highest rating, 91%, the highest rating that it’s had from the beginning, 91% approval rating. Always you watch the VA, when it was on television. Every night people living in a horrible, horrible manner. We got that done. We got accountability done. We got it so that now in the VA, you don’t have to wait for four weeks, six weeks, eight weeks, four months to see a doctor. If you can’t get a doctor, you go outside you get the doctor, you have them taken care of. And we pay the doctor. And we’ve not only made life wonderful for so many people, we’ve saved tremendous amounts of money, far secondarily, but we’ve saved a lot of money.
 And now we have the right to fire bad people in the VA. We had 9000 people that treated our veterans horribly. In primetime, they would not have treated our veterans badly. But they treated our veterans horribly. And we have what’s called the VA Accountability Act. And the accountability says if we see somebody in there that doesn’t treat our vets well, or they steal, they rob, they do things badly. We say, “Joe, you’re fired. Get out of here.” Before you couldn’t do that. You couldn’t do that before.
 So we’ve taken care of things. We’ve done things like nobody’s ever thought possible. And that’s part of the reason that many people don’t like us, because we’ve done too much, but we’ve done it quickly. And we were going to sit home and watch a big victory. And everybody had us down for a victory. It was going to be great. And now we’re out here fighting. I said to somebody, I was going to take a few days and relax after our big electoral victory. Ten o’clock, it was over. But I was going to take a few days.
 And I can say this, since our election, I believe, which was a catastrophe when I watch and even these guys knew what happened, they know what happened. They’re saying, “Wow, Pennsylvania’s insurmountable. Wow, Wisconsin, look at the big leads we had.” Even though the press said we were going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points. Even though the press said Ohio is going to be close, we set a record. Florida’s going to be close, we set a record. Texas is going to be close. Texas is going to be close, we set a record. And we set a record with Hispanic, with the Black community. We set a record with everybody.
 Today, we see a very important event though, because right over there, right there, we see the event going to take place. And I’m going to be watching, because history is going to be made. We’re going to see whether or not we have great and courageous leaders or whether or not we have leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity, they’ll be ashamed. And you know what? If they do the wrong thing, we should never ever forget that they did. Never forget. We should never ever forget. With only three of the seven states in question, we win the presidency of the United States.
 And by the way, it’s much more important today than it was 24 hours ago. Because I spoke to David Perdue, what a great person, and Kelly Loeffler, two great people, but it was a setup. And I said, “We have no back line anymore.” The only back line, the only line of demarcation, the only line that we have is the veto of the president of the United States. So this is now what we’re doing, a far more important election than it was two days ago.
 I want to thank the more than 140 members of the House. Those are warriors. They’re over there working like you’ve never seen before, studying, talking, actually going all the way back, studying the roots of the Constitution, because they know we have the right to send a bad vote that was illegally got, they gave these people bad things to vote for and they voted, because what did they know? And then when they found out a few weeks later… Again, it took them four years to devise history. And the only unhappy person in the United States, single most unhappy, is Hillary Clinton because she said, “Why didn’t you do this for me four years ago? Why didn’t you do this for me four years ago? Change the votes! 10,000 in Michigan. You could have changed the whole thing!” But she’s not too happy. You notice you don’t see her anymore. What happened? Where is Hillary? Where is she?
 But I want to thank all of those congressmen and women. I also want to thank our 13 most courageous members of the US Senate, Senator Ted Cruz, Senator Ron Johnson, Senator Shadowless, Kelly Loeffler. And Kelly Loeffler, I’ll tell you, she’s been so great. She works so hard. So let’s give her and David a little special head, because it was rigged against them. Let’s give her and David. Kelly Loeffler, David Perdue. They fought a good race. They never had a shot. That equipment should never have been allowed to be used, and I was telling these people don’t let them use this stuff. Marsha Blackburn, terrific person. Mike Braun, Indiana. Disinvested, great guy. Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Cynthia Lummis. Tommy Tuberville, to the coach. And Roger Marshall. We want to thank them, senators that stepped up, we want to thank them.
 I actually think though it takes, again, more courage not to step up. And I think a lot of those people are going to find that out, and you better start looking at your leadership because the leadership has led you down the tubes. “We don’t want to give $2000 to people. We want to give them $600.” Oh, great. How does that play politically? Pretty good? And this has nothing to do with politics. But how does it play politically? China destroyed these people. We didn’t destroy. China destroyed them, totally destroyed them. We want to give them $600, and they just wouldn’t change. I said, “Give them $2000. We’ll pay it back. We’ll pay it back fast. You already owe 26 trillion. Give them a couple of bucks. Let them live. Give them a couple of bucks!”
 And some of the people here disagree with me on that. But I just say, look, you got to let people live. And how does that play though? Okay, number one, it’s the right thing to do. But how does that play politically? I think it’s the primary reason, one of the primary reasons, the other was just pure cheating. That was the super primary reason. But you can’t do that. You got to use your head.
 As you know the media is constantly asserted the outrageous lie that there was no evidence of widespread fraud. You ever see these people? “While there is no evidence of fraud…” Oh, really? Well, I’m going to read you pages. I hope you don’t get bored listening to it. Promise? Don’t get bored listening to it, all those hundreds of thousands of people back there. Move them up, please. Yeah. All these people don’t get bored. Don’t get angry at me because you’re going to get bored because it’s so much. The American people do not believe the corrupt fake news anymore. They have ruined their reputation.
 But it used to be that they’d argue with me, I’d fight. So I’d fight, they’d fight. I’d fight, they’d fight. Boop-boop. You’d believe me, you’d believe them. Somebody comes out. They had their point of view, I had my point of view. But you’d have an argument. Now what they do is they go silent. It’s called suppression. And that’s what happens in a communist country. That’s what they do. They suppress. You don’t fight with them anymore, unless it’s a bad. They have a little bad story about me, they’ll make it 10 times worse and it’s a major headline. But Hunter Biden, they don’t talk about him. What happened to Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter? They don’t talk about him.
 Now watch all the sets will go off. Well, they can’t do that because they get good ratings. The ratings are too good. Now where is Hunter? And how come Joe was allowed to give a billion dollars of money to get rid of the prosecutor in Ukraine? How does that happen? I’d ask you that question. How does that happen? Can you imagine if I said that? If I said that it would be a whole different ball game. And how come Hunter gets three and a half million dollars from the Mayor of Moscow’s wife, and gets hundreds of thousands of dollars to sit on an energy board even though he admits he has no knowledge of energy, and millions of dollars up front, and how come they go into China and they leave with billions of dollars to manage? “Have you managed money before?” “No, I haven’t.” “Oh, that’s good. Here’s about 3 billion.”
 No, they don’t talk about that. No, we have a corrupt media. They’ve gone silent. They’ve gone dead. I now realize how good it was if you go back 10 years. I realized how good, even though I didn’t necessarily love him, I realized how good it was like a cleansing motion. But we don’t have that anymore. We don’t have a fair media anymore. It’s suppression and you have to be very careful with that. And they’ve lost all credibility in this country. We will not be intimidated into accepting the hoaxes and the lies that we’ve been forced to believe over the past several weeks. We’ve amassed overwhelming evidence about a fake election. This is the presidential election. Last night was a little bit better because of the fact that we had a lot of eyes watching one specific state, but they cheated like hell anyway.
 You have one of the dumbest governors in the United States. And when I endorsed him, I didn’t know this guy. At the request of David Perdue. He said, “A friend of mine is running for Governor, what’s his name.” And you know the rest. He was in fourth place, fifth place. I don’t know. He was way… He was doing poorly. I endorsed him. He went like a rocket ship and he won. And then I had to beat Stacey Abrams with this guy, Brian Kemp. I had to beat Stacey Abrams and I had to beat Oprah, used to be a friend of mine. I was on her last show. Her last week she picked the five outstanding people. I don’t think she thinks that anymore. Once I ran for president, I didn’t notice there were too many calls coming in from Oprah. Believe it or not, she used to like me, but I was one of the five outstanding people.
 And I had a campaign against Michelle Obama and Barack Hussein Obama against Stacey. And I had Brian Kemp, he weighs 130 pounds. He said he played offensive line in football. I’m trying to figure that. I’m still trying to figure that out. He said that the other night, “I was an offensive lineman.” I’m saying, “Really? That must’ve been a really small team.” But I look at that and I look at what’s happened, and he turned out to be a disaster. This stuff happens.
 Look, I’m not happy with the Supreme Court. They love to rule against me. I picked three people. I fought like hell for them, one in particular I fought. They all said, “Sir, cut him loose. He’s killing us.” The senators, very loyal senators. They’re very loyal people. “Sir, cut him loose. He’s killing us, sir. Cut him loose, sir.” I must’ve gotten half of the senators. I said, “No, I can’t do that. It’s unfair to him. And it’s unfair to the family. He didn’t do anything wrong. They’re made up stories.” They were all made up stories. He didn’t do anything wrong. “Cut him loose, sir.” I said, “No, I won’t do that.” We got him through. And you know what? They couldn’t give a damn. They couldn’t give a damn. Let them rule the right way, but it almost seems that they’re all going out of their way to hurt all of us, and to hurt our country. To hurt our country.
 I read a story in one of the newspapers recently how I control the three Supreme Court justices. I control them. They’re puppets. I read it about Bill Barr, that he’s my personal attorney. That he’ll do anything for me. And I said, “It really is genius,” because what they do is that, and it makes it really impossible for them to ever give you a victory, because all of a sudden Bill Barr changed, if you hadn’t noticed. I like Bill Barr, but he changed, because he didn’t want to be considered my personal attorney. And the Supreme Court, they rule against me so much. You know why? Because the story is I haven’t spoken to any of them, any of them, since virtually they got in. But the story is that they’re my puppet. That they’re puppets. And now that the only way they can get out of that, because they hate that, it’s not good on the social circuit. And the only way they get out is to rule against Trump. So let’s rule against Trump, and they do that. So I want to congratulate them.
 But it shows you the media’s genius. In fact, probably, if I was the media, I’d do it the same way. I hate to say it. But we got to get them straightened out. Today, for the sake of our democracy, for the sake of our Constitution, and for the sake of our children, we lay out the case for the entire world to hear. You want to hear it?
 In every single swing state, local officials, state officials, almost all Democrats made illegal and unconstitutional changes to election procedures without the mandated approvals by the state legislatures, that these changes paved the way for fraud on a scale never seen before. And I think we’d go a long way outside of our country when I say that.
 So just in a nutshell, you can’t make a change on voting for a federal election unless the state legislature approves it. No judge can do it. Nobody can do it, only a legislature. So as an example in Pennsylvania or whatever, you have a Republican legislature, you have a Democrat mayor, and you have a lot of Democrats all over the place. They go to the legislature, the legislature laughs at them. Says, “We’re not going to do that.” They say, “Thank you very much.” And they go and make the changes themselves. They do it anyway. And that’s totally illegal. That’s totally illegal. You can’t do that.
 In Pennsylvania, the Democrat Secretary of State and the Democrat State Supreme Court justices illegally abolished the signature verification requirements just 11 days prior to the election. So think of what they did. No longer is there signature verification. Oh, that’s okay. We want voter ID by the way. But no longer is their signature verification, 11 days before the election! They say, “We don’t want it.” You know why they don’t want it? Because they want to cheat. That’s the only reason. Who would even think of that? We don’t want to verify a signature? There were over 205,000 more ballots counted in Pennsylvania. Now think of this. You had 205,000 more ballots than you had voters. That means you had 200… Where did they come from? You know where they came from? Somebody’s imagination. Whatever they needed. So in Pennsylvania you had 205,000 more votes than you had voters! And it’s the number is actually much greater than that now. That was as of a week ago. And this is a mathematical impossibility, unless you want to say it’s a total fraud. So Pennsylvania was defrauded.
 Over 8000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose names and dates of birth match individuals who died in 2020 and prior to the election. Think of that. Dead people! Lots of dead people, thousands. And some dead people actually requested an application. That bothers me even more. Not only are they voting, they want an application to vote. One of them was 29 years ago died. It’s incredible.
 Over 14,000 ballots were cast by out-of-state voters. So these are voters that don’t live in the state. And by the way, these numbers are what they call outcome determinative. Meaning these numbers far surpass… I lost by a very little bit. These numbers are massive. Massive. More than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were illegally counted, even though they were received after Election Day. In other words, “They were received after Election Day, let’s count them anyway!” And what they did in many cases is they did fraud. They took the date and they moved it back, so that it no longer is after Election Day. And more than 60,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were reported received back. They got back before they were ever supposedly mailed out. In other words, you got the ballot back before you mailed it!
 … they were supposedly mailed out, in other words, you got the ballot back before you mailed it, which is also logically and logistically impossible. Think of that one. You got the ballot back. Let’s send the ballots. Oh, they’ve already been sent. But we got the ballot back before they were sent. I don’t think that’s too good.
 Twenty-five thousand ballots in Pennsylvania were requested by nursing home residents, all in a single giant batch, not legal. Indicating an enormous illegal ballot harvesting operation. You’re not allowed to do it. It’s against the law. The day before the election, the State of Pennsylvania reported the number of absentee ballots that had been sent out. Yet this number was suddenly and drastically increased by 400,000 people. It was increased. Nobody knows where it came from by 400,000 ballots. One day after the election, it remains totally unexplained. They said, “Well, we can’t figure that.” Now that’s many, many times what it would take to overthrow the state. Just that one element. 400,000 ballots appeared from nowhere, right after the election.
 By the way, Pennsylvania has now seen all of this. They didn’t know because it was so quick. They had a vote, they voted, but now they see all this stuff. It’s all come to light. Doesn’t happen that fast. And they want to re certify their votes. They want to re certify. But the only way that can happen is if Mike Pence agrees to send it back.
 Mike Pence has to agree to send it back. And many people in Congress want it sent back, and take of what you’re doing. Let’s say you don’t do it. Somebody says, “Well, we have to obey the constitution.” And you are, because you’re protecting our country and you’re protecting the constitution, so you are. But think of what happens. Let’s say they’re stiffs and they’re stupid people. And they say, “Well, we really have no choice.” Even though Pennsylvania and other states want to redo their votes, they want to see the numbers. They already have the numbers. Go very quickly and they want to redo their legislature because many of these votes were taken as I said, because it wasn’t approved by their legislature. That in itself is illegal and then you have the scam and that’s all of the things that we’re talking about. But think of this: if you don’t do that, that means you will have a president of the United States for four years, with his wonderful son.
 You will have a president who lost all of these states, or you will have a president to put it another way, who was voted on by a bunch of stupid people who lost all of these things. You will have an illegitimate president, that’s what you’ll have. And we can’t let that happen. These are the facts that you won’t hear from the fake news media. It’s all part of the suppression effort. They don’t want to talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it. In fact, when I started talking about that, I guarantee you a lot of the television sets and a lot of those cameras went off and that’s how a lot of cameras back there. But a lot of them went off, but these are the things you don’t hear about. You don’t hear what you just heard. And I’m going to go over a few more states. But you don’t hear it by the people who want to deceive you and demoralize you and control you, big tech, media.
 Just like the suppression polls that said, we’re going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points, well we won Wisconsin. They don’t have it that way because they lose just by a little sliver. But they had me down the day before Washington Post, ABC poll, down 17 points. I called up a real pollster. I said, “What is that?” “Sir, that’s called a suppression poll. I think you’re going to win Wisconsin, sir.” I said, “But why do they make it four or five points?” “Because then people vote. But when you’re down 17, they say, ‘Hey, I’m not going to waste my time. I love the president, but there’s no way.'” Despite that, we won Wisconsin, you’ll see. But that’s called suppression because a lot of people, when they see that, it’s very interesting. This pollster said, “Sir, if you’re down three, four or five people vote. When you go down 17, they say, ‘Let’s save, let’s go and have dinner, and let’s watch the presidential defeat tonight on television darling.'”
 And just like the radical left tries to blacklist you on social media, every time I put out a tweet, even if it’s totally correct, totally correct. I get a flag. I get a flag. And they also don’t let you get out. On Twitter, it’s very hard to come on to my account. It’s very hard to get out a message. They don’t let the message get out nearly like they should, but I’ve had many people say, “I can’t get on your Twitter.” I don’t care about Twitter. Twitter is bad news. They’re all bad news. But you know what? If you want to get out of message. And if you want to go through big tech, social media, they are really, if you’re a conservative, if you’re a Republican, if you have a big voice, I guess they call it shadow ban. Shadow ban. They shadow ban you and it should be illegal. I’ve been telling these Republicans get rid of Section 230.
 And for some reason, Mitch and the group, they don’t want to put it in there. And they don’t realize that that’s going to be the end of the Republican party as we know it, but it’s never going to be the end of us, never. Let them get out. Let the weak ones get out. This is a time for strength. They also want to indoctrinate your children in school by teaching them things that aren’t so. They want to indoctrinate your children. It’s all part of the comprehensive assault on our democracy and the American people to finally standing up and saying, “No.” This crowd is again a testament to it. I did no advertising. I did nothing. You do have some groups that are big supporters. I want to thank that Amy and everybody, we have some incredible supporters, incredible, but we didn’t do anything. This just happened.
 Two months ago, we had a massive crowd come down to Washington. I said, “What are they there for.” “Sir, they’re there for you.” We have nothing to do with it. These groups, they’re forming all over the United States. And we got to remember, in a year from now, you’re going to start working on Congress. And we got to get rid of the weak congresspeople, the ones that aren’t any good, the Liz Cheneys of the world, we got to get rid of them. We got to get rid of them. She never wants a soldier brought home. I’ve brought a lot of our soldiers home. I don’t know, some like it. They’re in countries that nobody even knows the name. Nobody knows where they are. They’re dying. They’re great, but they’re dying. They’re losing their arms, their legs, their face. I brought them back home, largely back home, Afghanistan, Iraq. Remember I used to say in the old days, “Don’t go into Iraq. But if you go in, keep the oil.” We didn’t keep the oil. So stupid. So stupid, these people. And Iraq has billions and billions of dollars now in the bank. And what did we do? We get nothing. We never get. But we do actually, we kept the oil here. We did good. We got rid of the ISIS caliphate. We got rid of plenty of different things that everybody knows and the rebuilding of our military in three years, people said it couldn’t be done. And it was all made in the USA, all made in the USA. Best equipment in the world. In Wisconsin, corrupt Democrat run cities deployed more than 500 illegal unmanned, unsecured drop boxes, which collected a minimum of 91,000 unlawful votes. It was razor thin the loss. This one thing alone is much more than we would need, but there are many things.
 They have these lockboxes and they pick them up and they disappear for two days. People would say, “Where’s that box?” They disappeared. Nobody even knew where the hell it was. In addition, over 170,000 absentee votes were counted in Wisconsin without a valid absentee ballot application. So they had a vote, but they had no application. And that’s illegal in Wisconsin. Meaning those votes were blatantly done in opposition to state law. And they came 100% from Democrat areas, such as Milwaukee and Madison, 100%. In Madison, 17,000 votes were deposited in so-called human drop boxes. You know what that is, right? Where operatives stuff thousands of unsecured ballots into duffel bags on park benches across the city in complete defiance of cease and desist letters from state legislature. The state legislature said, “Don’t do it.” They’re the only ones that could approve it. They gave tens of thousands of votes.
 They came in in duffel bags. Where the hell did they come from? According to eyewitness testimony, postal service workers in Wisconsin were also instructed to illegally backdate approximately 100,000 ballots. The margin of difference in Wisconsin was less than 20,000 votes. Each one of these things alone wins us the state. Great state, we love the state, we won the state. In Georgia, your secretary of state, I can’t believe this guy’s a Republican. He loves recording telephone conversations. I thought it was a great conversation personally, so did a lot of other … people love that conversation, because it says what’s going on. These people are crooked. They’re 100% in my opinion, one of the most corrupt. Between your governor and your secretary of state. And now you have it again last night, just take a look at what happened, what a mess and the Democrat party operatives entered into an illegal and unconstitutional settlement agreement that drastically weakened signature verification and other election security procedures.
 Stacey Abrams, she took them to lunch and I beat her two years ago with a bad candidate, Brian Kemp. But the Democrats, took the Republicans to lunch because the secretary of state had no clue what the hell was happening, unless he did have a clue. That’s interesting. Maybe he was with the other side, but we’ve been trying to get verifications of signatures in Fulton County. They won’t let us do it. The only reason they won’t is because we’ll find things in the hundreds of thousands. Why wouldn’t they let us verify signatures and Fulton County? Which is known for being very corrupt. They won’t do it. They go to some other county where you would live. I said, “That’s not the problem. The problem is Fulton County.” Home of Stacey Abrams. She did a good job. I congratulate her, but it was done in such a way that we can’t let this stuff happen.
 We won’t have a country of it happens. As a result Georgia’s absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels, because the criteria was so off, 48 counties in Georgia with thousands and thousands of votes rejected zero ballots. There wasn’t one ballot. In other words, in a year in which more mail-in ballots were sent than ever before, and more people were voting by mail for the first time, the rejection rate was drastically lower than it had ever been before. The only way this can be explained is if tens of thousands of illegitimate votes were added to the tally, that’s the only way you could explain it. By the way, you’re talking about tens of thousands. If Georgia had merely rejected the same number of unlawful ballots, as in other years, there should have been approximately 45,000 ballots rejected, far more than what we needed to win, just over 11,000.
 They should find those votes. They should absolutely find that just over 11,000 votes, that’s all we need. They defrauded us out of a win in Georgia, and we’re not going to forget it. There’s only one reason the Democrats could possibly want to eliminate signature matching, oppose voter ID and stop citizenship confirmation. Are you in citizenship? You’re not allowed to ask that question. Because they want to steal the election. The radical left knows exactly what they’re doing. They’re ruthless and it’s time that somebody did something about it. And Mike Pence, I hope you’re going to stand up for the good of our constitution and for the good of our country. And if you’re not, I’m going to be very disappointed in you. I will tell you right now. I’m not hearing good stories. In Fulton County, republican poll Watchers were rejected in some cases, physically from the room under the false pretense of a pipe burst.
 Water main burst, everybody leave. Which we now know was a total lie. Then election officials pull boxes, Democrats and suitcases of ballots out from under a table. You all saw it on television, totally fraudulent. And illegally scanned them for nearly two hours totally unsupervised. Tens of thousands of votes, as that coincided with a mysterious vote dump of up to 100,000 votes for Joe Biden, almost none for Trump. Oh, that sounds fair. That was at 1:34 AM. The Georgia secretary of state and pathetic governor of Georgia … although he says, I’m a great president. I sort of maybe have to change. He said the other day, “Yes, I disagree with president, but he’s been a great president.” Oh, good. Thanks. Thank you very much. Because of him and others. Brian Kemp, vote him the hell out of office, please.
 Well, his rates are so low, his approval rating now, I think it just reached a record low. They’ve rejected five separate appeals for an independent and comprehensive audit of signatures in Fulton County. Even without an audit, the number of fraudulent ballots that we’ve identified across the state is staggering. Over 10,300 ballots in Georgia were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match Georgia residents who died in 2020 and prior to the election. More than 2,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match incarcerated felons in Georgia prison. People who are not allowed to vote. More than 4,500 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on the state’s own voter rolls. Over 18,000 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote using an address listed as vacant, according to the postal service. At least 88,000 ballots in Georgia were cast by people whose registrations were illegally backdated.
 Each one of these is far more than we need. 66,000 votes in Georgia were cast by individuals under the legal voting age. And at least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state prior to November 3rd election. They say they moved right back. They move right back. Oh, they moved out. They moved right back. Okay. They miss Georgia that much. I do. I love Georgia, but it’s a corrupt system. Despite all of this, the margin in Georgia is only 11,779 votes. Each and every one of these issues is enough to give us a victory in Georgia, a big, beautiful victory. Make no mistake, this selection stolen from you, from me and from the country. And not a single swing state has conducted a comprehensive audit to remove the illegal ballots. This should absolutely occur in every single contestant state before the election is certified.
 In the State of Arizona, over 36,000 ballots were illegally cast by non-citizens. 2000 ballots were returned with no address. More than 22,000 ballots were returned before they were ever supposedly mailed out. They returned, but we haven’t mailed them yet. 11,600 more ballots and votes were counted more than there were actual voters. You see that? So you have more votes again than you have voters.
 150,000 people registered in Maya Copa County after the registration deadline. 103,000 ballots in the county were sent for electronic adjudication with no Republican observers. In Clark County, Nevada, the accuracy settings on signature verification machines were purposely lowered before they were used to count over 130,000 ballots. If you signed your name as Santa Claus, it would go through. There were also more than 42,000 double votes in Nevada. Over 150, 000 people were hurt so badly by what took place. And 1500 ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match Nevada residents who died in 2020, prior to November 3rd election. More than 8,000 votes were cast by individuals who had no address and probably didn’t live there. The margin in Nevada is down at a very low number. Any of these things would have taken care of the situation. We would have won-
 Any of these things would have taken care of the situation. We would have won Nevada also. Every one of these we’re going over, we win. In Michigan quickly, the secretary of state, a real great one, flooded the state with unsolicited mail-in ballot applications, sent to every person on the rolls, in direct violation of state law. More than 17,000 Michigan ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth matched people who were deceased. In Wayne County, that’s a great one. That’s Detroit. 174,000 ballots were counted without being tied to an actual registered voter. Nobody knows where they came from. Also in Wayne County, poll watches observed canvassers re-scanning batches of ballots over and over again, up to three or four or five times. In Detroit, turnout was 139% of registered voters. Think of that. So you had 139% of the people in Detroit voting. This is in Michigan, Detroit, Michigan.
 A career employee of the Detroit, City of Detroit, testified under penalty of perjury that she witnessed city workers coaching voters to vote straight Democrat, while accompanying them to watch who they voted for. When a Republican came in, they wouldn’t talk to him. The same worker was instructed not to ask for any voter ID and not to attempt to validate any signatures if they were Democrats. She also told to illegally, and was told backdate ballots received after the deadline and reports that thousands and thousands of ballots were improperly backdated. That’s Michigan. Four witnesses have testified under penalty of perjury that after officials in Detroit announced the last votes had been counted, tens of thousands of additional ballots arrived without required envelopes. Every single one was for a Democrat. I got no votes.
 At 6:31 AM, in the early morning hours after voting had ended, Michigan suddenly reported 147,000 votes. An astounding 94% went to Joe Biden, who campaigned brilliantly from his basement. Only a couple of percentage points went to Trump. Such gigantic and one-sided vote dumps were only observed in a few swing states and they were observed in the states where it was necessary. You know what’s interesting, President Obama beat Biden in every state other than the swing states where Biden killed him. But the swing States were the ones that mattered. There were always just enough to push Joe Biden barely into the lead. We were ahead by a lot and within the number of hours we were losing by a little.
 In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting systems. In one Michigan County alone, 6,000 votes were switched from Trump to Biden and the same systems are used in the majority of states in our country. Senator William Ligon, a great gentleman, chairman of Georgia Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, Senator Ligon, highly respected on elections has written a letter describing his concerns with Dominion in Georgia.
 He wrote, and I quote, “The Dominion voting machines employed in Fulton County had an astronomical and astounding 93.67% error rate.” It’s only wrong 93% of the time. “In the scanning of ballots requiring a review panel to adjudicate or determine the voter’s interest, in over 106,000 ballots out of a total of 113,000.” Think of it, you go in and you vote and then they tell people who you’re supposed to be voting for. They make up whatever they want. Nobody’s ever even heard. They adjudicate your vote. They say, “Well, we don’t think Trump wants to vote for Trump. We think he wants to vote for Biden. Put it down for Biden.” The national average for such an error rate is far less than 1% and yet you’re at 93%. ” The source of this astronomical error rate must be identified to determine if these machines were set up or destroyed to allow for a third party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter.”
 The letter continues, “There is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were switched from President Trump to former Vice President Biden in several counties in Georgia. For example, in Bibb County, President Trump was reported to have 29, 391 votes at 9:11 PM Eastern time. While simultaneously Vice President Joe Biden was reported to have 17,213. Minutes later, just minutes, at the next update, these vote numbers switched with President Trump going way down to 17,000 and Biden going way up to 29,391.” And that was very quick, a 12,000 vote switch, all in Mr. Biden’s favor.
 So, I mean, I could go on and on about this fraud that took place in every state and all of these legislatures want this back. I don’t want to do it to you because I love you and it’s freezing out here, but I could just go on forever. I can tell you this…
 So when you hear, when you hear, “While there is no evidence to prove any wrongdoing,” this is the most fraudulent thing anybody’s… This is a criminal enterprise. This is a criminal enterprise and the press will say, and I’m sure they won’t put any of that on there because that’s no good, do you ever see, “While there is no evidence to back President Trump’s assertion,” I could go on for another hour reading this stuff to you and telling you about it. There’s never been anything like it. Think about it, Detroit had more votes than it had voters. Pennsylvania had 205,000 more votes than it had more, but you don’t have to go any… Between that, I think that’s almost better than dead people, if you think, right? More votes than they had voters, and many other States are also.
 It’s a disgrace that the United States of America, tens of millions of people are allowed to go vote without so much as even showing identification. In no state is there any question or effort made to verify the identity, citizenship, residency, or eligibility of the votes cast. The Republicans have to get tougher. You’re not going to have a Republican party if you don’t get tougher. They want to play so straight, they want to play so, “Sir, yes, the United States, the constitution doesn’t allow me to send them back to the States.” Well, I say, “Yes, it does because the constitution says you have to protect our country and you have to protect our constitution and you can’t vote on fraud,” and fraud breaks up everything, doesn’t it? When you catch somebody in a fraud, you’re allowed to go by very different rules. So I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has to do. And I hope he doesn’t listen to the RINOs and the stupid people that he’s listening to. It is also widely understood that the voter rolls are crammed full of non-citizens, felons and people who have moved out of state and individuals who are otherwise ineligible to vote. Yet Democrats oppose every effort to clean up their voter rolls. They don’t want to clean them up, they are loaded. And how many people here know other people that when the hundreds of thousands and then millions of ballots got sent out, got three, four, five, six, and I heard one who got seven ballots. And then they say, “You didn’t quite make it, sir.” We won. We won in a landslide. This was a landslide.
 They said, “It’s not American to challenge the election.” This is the most corrupt election in the history, maybe of the world. You know, you could go third world countries, but I don’t think they had hundreds of thousands of votes and they don’t have voters for them. I mean, no matter where you go, nobody would think this. In fact, it’s so egregious, it’s so bad, that a lot of people don’t even believe it. It’s so crazy that people don’t even believe it. It can’t be true. So they don’t believe it. This is not just a matter of domestic politics, this is a matter of national security. So today, in addition to challenging the certification of the election, I’m calling on Congress and the state legislatures to quickly pass sweeping election reforms, and you better do it before we have no country left. Today is not the end. It’s just the beginning.
 With your help over the last four years, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country and nobody even challenges that. I say that over and over, and I never get challenged by the fake news, and they challenge almost everything we say. But our fight against the big donors, big media, big tech and others is just getting started. This is the greatest in history. There’s never been a movement like that. You look back there all the way to the Washington Monument. It’s hard to believe. We must stop the steal and then we must ensure that such outrageous election fraud never happens again, can never be allowed to happen again, but we’re going forward. We’ll take care of going forward. We got to take care of going back. Don’t let them talk, “Okay, well we promise,” I’ve had a lot of people, “Sir, you’re at 96% for four years.” I said, “I’m not interested right now. I’m interested in right there.”
 With your help we will finally pass powerful requirements for voter ID. You need an ID to cash your check. You need an ID to go to a bank, to buy alcohol, to drive a car. Every person should need to show an ID in order to cast your most important thing, a vote. We will also require proof of American citizenship in order to vote in American elections. We just had a good victory in court on that one, actually. We will ban ballot harvesting and prohibit the use of unsecured drop boxes to commit rampant fraud. These drop boxes are fraudulent. There for, they get… They disappear and then all of a sudden they show up. It’s fraudulent. We will stop the practice of universal, unsolicited mail-in balloting. We will clean up the voter rolls that ensure that every single person who cast a vote is a citizen of our country, a resident of the state in which they vote and their vote is cast in a lawful and honest manner. We will restore the vital civic tradition of in-person voting on election day so that voters can be fully informed when they make their choice. We will finally hold big tech accountable and if these people had courage and guts, they would get rid of Section 230, something that no other company, no other person in America, in the world, has.
 All of these tech monopolies are going to abuse their power and interfere in our elections and it has to be stopped and the Republicans have to get a lot tougher and so should the Democrats. They should be regulated, investigated and brought to justice under the fullest extent of the law. They’re totally breaking the law. Together we will drain the Washington swamp and we will clean up the corruption in our nation’s capital. We have done a big job on it, but you think it’s easy, it’s a dirty business. It’s a dirty business. You have a lot of bad people out there. Despite everything we’ve been through, looking out all over this country and seeing fantastic crowds, although this I think is our all time record. I think you have 250, 000 people. 250,000.
 Looking out at all the amazing patriots here today, I have never been more confident in our nation’s future. Well, I have to say we have to be a little bit careful. That’s a nice statement, but we have to be a little careful with that statement. If we allow this group of people to illegally take over our country, because it’s illegal when the votes are illegal, when the way they got there is illegal, when the States that vote are given false and fraudulent information. We are the greatest country on earth and we are headed, and were headed, in the right direction. You know, the wall is built, we’re doing record numbers at the wall. Now they want to take down the wall. Let’s let everyone flow in. Let’s let everybody flow in.
 We did a great job in the wall. Remember the wall? They said it could never be done. One of the largest infrastructure projects we’ve ever had in this country and it’s had a tremendous impact and we got rid of catch and release, we got rid of all of the stuff that we had to live with. But now the caravans, they think Biden’s getting in, the caravans are forming again. They want to come in again and rip off our country. Can’t let it happen. As this enormous crowd shows, we have truth and justice on our side. We have a deep and enduring love for America in our hearts. We love our country. We have overwhelming pride in this great country, and we have it deep in our souls. Together we are determined to defend and preserve government of the people, by the people and for the people.
 Our brightest days are before us, our greatest achievements still wait. I think one of our great achievements will be election security because nobody until I came along, had any idea how corrupt our elections were. And again, most people would stand there at 9:00 in the evening and say, “I want to thank you very much,” and they go off to some other life, but I said, “Something’s wrong here. Something’s really wrong. Can’t have happened.” And we fight. We fight like Hell and if you don’t fight like Hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore.
 Our exciting adventures and boldest endeavors have not yet begun. My fellow Americans for our movement, for our children and for our beloved country and I say this, despite all that’s happened, the best is yet to come.
 So we’re going to, we’re going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, I love Pennsylvania Avenue, and we’re going to the Capitol and we’re going to try and give… The Democrats are hopeless. They’re never voting for anything, not even one vote. But we’re going to try and give our Republicans, the weak ones, because the strong ones don’t need any of our help, we’re going to try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that they need to take back our country.
 So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue. I want to thank you all. God bless you and God bless America. Thank you all for being here, this is incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Well, I want to thank you very much. Hello, Georgia, by the way. There’s no way we lost Georgia. There’s no way. That was a rigged election, but we’re still fighting it and you’ll see what’s going to happen. We’ll talk about it. I just want to thank you. This is some crowd. Biden was here today, also. They had 14 people in three cars. No, there was no way. I just want to thank you. I’ve had two elections. I won both of them. It’s amazing. I actually did much better on the second one. It’s great to be back in this incredible state, the home of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family and country. Tomorrow, each of you is going to vote in one of the most important runoff elections of the history of our country. Frankly, forget about runoff. One of the most important elections, really. It’s really not runoff. It’s elections because it’s a biggie. Our country’s depending on you. The whole world is watching the people of Georgia tomorrow. You’ve got to swamp them because everything’s so crooked around. I mean, and not here.
 They were saying, “Oh, he’s complaining about Georgia.” No, no. I’m complaining about eight different states, and I think we’re going to win them all. You’re going to get everyone you know. You’re going to show up at the polls in record numbers. You got to swamp them and together we’re going to defeat the Democratic streamers and deliver a thundering victory to David Perdue. Where’s David? David, David. We love our David. I know David so well. He’s respected and loved by everyone. And someone that has really been a star in Washington, Kelly Loeffler. Where is Kelly? Where is our Kelly? What a job you’ve done. Thank you. I will tell you about Kelly.
 Kelly fights for me. David fights for me, that I can tell you. I will also say the Republicans, you have to understand, for the people that don’t fight, not for me, fighting for us because we have a lot of corrupt things that happen when they don’t fight. One thing I’ve learned about Republicans, they have some difficulties, but you know a difficulty that they don’t have? They never forget. They never forget. People are going to find that out because we have to go and we have to go all the way and that’s what’s happening. You watch what happens over the next couple of weeks. You watch what’s going to come out. Watch what’s going to be revealed. You watch.
 I have to tell you that the stakes of this election could not be higher. You vote tomorrow. You want to go out tomorrow. People want to go out. They don’t want to do the ballot thing. Don’t want to do it unless it’s the other side, in which case they just print them out. They don’t want to do it. They want to go and vote and make sure your vote is counted. Make sure they don’t let you say, “I’m sorry. Somebody else has already voted for you.” Your vote tomorrow will decide which party controls the United States Senate. The radical Democrats are trying to capture Georgia’s Senate seats so they can wield unchecked, unrestrained, absolute power over every aspect of your lives. If the liberal Democrats take the Senate and the White House… And they’re not taking this White House. We’re going to fight like hell, I’ll tell you right now.
 I was telling Kelly before, you can lose and that’s acceptable. You lose, you lose. You go, and you go wherever you’re going and you go and say, “Maybe I’ll do it again sometime, or maybe I won’t or I’ll get back to life.” But when you win in a landslide and they steal it and it’s rigged, it’s not acceptable. Not acceptable. Then you have a country that would be run, if these two don’t win, and if we don’t take the presidency, you have a country that would be run by Schumer, Pelosi, and Biden. The people of Georgia will be at the mercy of the left wing, socialist, communist, Marxists. That’s where it’s going. We don’t like to use the word communist.
 How about the press? Look at them back there. Look at all of them. How about the press? That’s a lot of press. Oh, boy. That’s a lot of press. But they’ve gone silent now. They have a new thing. They used to fight me left, right. I’d go, they’d go. You’d fight. I’d win. They’d win. Who knows who wins? But people would hear. Now they don’t want to talk about it. Unless they can say something bad about you, they don’t want to talk about it. So if we talk about certain subjects, as you’ve been watching over the last six months, all of a sudden they were getting clobbered so they went stone cold silent. Big tech, the fake news media, they go silent anymore. They don’t talk about it, and that is the beginning of communism. That’s exactly what happens.
 Because I think they hate our country and they despise Georgia values. I think a lot of you despise them as you know there’s nothing the radical Democrats will not do to get power that they so desperately crave. Even the outright stealing of elections, like they’re trying to do with us. We’re not going to let it happen over the pass, and I hope Mike Pence comes through for us, I have to tell you. I hope that our great vice president comes through for us. He’s a great guy. Of course, if he doesn’t come through, I won’t like him quite as much. No, Mike is a great guy. He’s a wonderful man and a smart man and a man that I like a lot, but he’s going to have a lot to say about it. One thing with him, you’re going to get straight shots. He’s going to call it straight. Over the past few weeks, we’ve demonstrated that we won the election in a landslide. Almost 75 million people voted for me, the most of any incumbent president in the history of our country.
 We won over 11 million, close to 12 million, more votes than 2016. One of the largest, actually, the single largest increase in the history of our country. No person that won went to a second term or went through an election where he got nearly 12 million votes. Nope. It never happened before. Never happened before. We made historic gains among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, and we won the largest share of non-white vote of any Republican president in 60 years. We also won 18 out of 19 bellwether counties. Now, when you win just a few bellwether counties, you always win the election. We won 18 out of 19. That’s a record, and they said we didn’t win. We won 25 of 26 toss-up House races. I think we have one that we’re waiting for, right? Did you see the one in… Hello, Mike. How are you, Mike?
 Did you see the one in New York where Claudia, good woman… They keep finding votes. They keep finding votes. “She’s up by 18. Oh, we just found 19 votes.” That’s the same kind of stuff. Democrats were projected to gain 15 House seats and instead… And Kevin McCarthy gives us the credit. Good man. Very good man. My coattails, we swept our Republican House candidates to victory and we have a couple of great ones with us tonight, and the Democrats lost 14 seats. It was supposed to be the other way around. When that happens, no president loses unless they play games. You don’t lose. They play games. The fact is we won the presidential election. We won it big and we’re going to win tomorrow. We’re going to win it really big.
 We have to. We have to. People have no idea how important that is. Tonight, our mission here in Georgia is to make sure the radical left cannot rob you of your voice and your votes in Washington. You can’t lose these two people. I really know them well. They’re the most respected people. They’re great people and they really do have a voice and they love their state and they love their country. The Democrats are trying to steal the White House. You can not let them. You just can’t let them steal the U.S. Senate. You can’t let it happen. You can’t let it happen. David and Kelly are running against the most extreme liberal candidates in the history of your state, probably in the history of our country, Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock. Well, I beat Ossoff once running against a very fine woman, Karen, who you know, and he was at 57 and I got involved and we drove him down to 49 and then he ended up in a runoff and she ended up winning. Now I have to beat him a second time. This is going to be, hopefully, easy because when you know what he stands for, when you know what Warnock stands for, it really should be easy. Cast deciding votes to rubber stamp the agenda of AOC and Bernie Sanders. Crazy Bernie. Stacey Abrams. What’s with this Stacey Abrams? Your governor and your secretary of state, they’re petrified of Stacey Abrams. What’s that all about? Did you see this consent decree they signed with signature verification? You can forget about it. What they have done to your state. I think most people have no idea what they’ve done to your state. That consent decree or these two people. I don’t know. They say they’re Republicans. I really don’t think they are. They can’t be.
 If we want to have a special session, because your legislature’s excellent, they want to have a… Why wouldn’t they let us have a special session? If they want to check signatures in Fulton County, not in Cobb County. We didn’t ask for Cobb County. They said, “We’ll do Cobb first and then we’ll do Fulton.” They do Cobb. Then they never get to Fulton. Why wouldn’t they do that? Why wouldn’t they do that? That’s a positive thing. Anyway, the Democrats want to turn America. I’ll be here in about a year and a half campaigning against your governor, I guarantee you that. I shouldn’t say this. I shouldn’t say this because I just don’t want you to tell anybody outside of this room, other than the millions of people now, but I endorsed him. He was in last place and I endorsed him. He went to first place immediately, and then he won the primary, and then I gave him a couple of rallies, which I don’t like doing for other people. I was telling Kelly, ” do rallies for other people. I do them for me, right?” Not that easy, a crowd like this. They say over 25,000 people. Over what? Over a couple of days notice. Is everybody glad you’re here, right? I think so. There is no place like a Trump rally, but you know what? This is a Kelly rally and a David rally. I wouldn’t do it unless I loved them both. I wouldn’t do it. But I’m going to be here in a year and a half and I’m going to be campaigning against your governor and your crazy secretary of state, that I can tell you.
 You have great candidates. They want to turn, the Democrats do, America into Venezuela with no jobs, no prosperity, no rights, no freedom, no future for you and your family. Here is exactly what the radical left will do if they win this runoff election, which we can’t let them do tomorrow. Tomorrow’s a big day. I guess we have to get over a million votes tomorrow, right, Kelly? Over a million. All right. That’s a lot of votes, Kelly, but we’ll do it. The one thing I know, if they win I’ll get no credit, and if they lose they’re going to blame Trump, these people. Kelly won’t let that happen. Please win tomorrow. You’re going to win so big, it’s going to be great story. It’s a great story, a very important story for our country, long beyond Georgia for our country. It’s such a big story. They’ll massively raise your taxes on the middle class to pay for socialism. The U.S. military, which we rebuilt. We’ve totally rebuilt the U.S. military, much of it coming right out of Georgia.
 We built it right out of Georgia, a lot of it. You have incredible contractors in Georgia, military contractors, and they got plenty of our money. Spent $2.5 trillion. When I took over the military, it was absolutely a mess. It was depleted. Now it’s the opposite of depleted. The U.S. military will be gutted and military families across the street and all over the state will be betrayed. Their benefits and opportunities will be slashed. Fort Benning, Fort Gordon and other Georgia military institutions will be the first on the chopping block. By the way, there’ll be forced to change the names of the bases where generations of American patriots trained to win two World Wars. I don’t know. Fort Benning. Let’s see. Give me a couple of names. I could give you some. I don’t want to give them the credit, but you’ll name them.
 You’ll name them after other people. Fort Trump. Yeah. How about that? I like that. Yeah, let’s change the name. Let’s change it. Kelly, let’s change it. If they name it Trump, let’s change it. No. Now they’re going to go back and say, “He wants to have Fort Benning changed to Trump.” Watch, they’ll say, “He’s asking, he’s begging for Fort Benning to be changed to Trump.” No, no. I don’t want that. The Democrats will surrender the entire U.S. manufacturing industry to China. You notice they never criticize China, right? They never… It’s Russia, Russia, Russia. I saw it today again. Russia, Russia. Oh, Russia. Here we go. That was another great scam. I’ve been involved in the two greatest scams in American history, the Russian hoax, and now they are trying to steal an election from us. We won not by a little bit. We won in numbers like nobody’s seen before.
 If Ossoff and Warnock are elected, they will immediately [inaudible 00:18:12] and you know what’s going to happen. They’ll throw open American borders and allow tens of millions of illegal immigrants to pour into our country from every corner of the globe. Your schools, your hospitals and your communities will be overwhelmed. And the wall, the wall, the wall. Remember, we’ll build a wall. We’re going to build a wall. And that’s right, Mexico is paying for the wall. If I were here, they would be, because we were going to charge them a nice fee, right at the entry points. They were paying for the wall. They paid for 28,000 troops along the wall and along the border, which we don’t need so much anymore, but we built almost 500 miles of wall and they want to rip down the wall. They want to rip down.
 It’s why the numbers have been so great. But now everyone’s coming back up because they think this guy’s going to win. If he wins, it’s going to be everything that they could dream for, dream of. We want to help other people, but we can’t afford to do it. We can’t afford to do it. So, they’re coming up now, the caravans. Remember the caravans? The caravans are starting to form. Here they come. But let’s keep this thing going. We have great support in Congress. We have good support in the Senate. I wouldn’t say great. Could be better. But people will remember the people that don’t support us. If they win this race, Democrats will implement nationwide catch and release. You know what that is? You catch a criminal and you take his name. You say, “You’re released into our country.” I ended it.
 You’re released. Come back in four years. We’re going to take you to court. So far nobody’s ever shown up. I mean, literally they almost don’t show up. That’s when I had the big debate with Biden. They come back for court. I said, “No, they don’t.” I turned out to be right. Did they apologize? I don’t think so. And turn our entire country into one giant sanctuary for criminal aliens, setting loose tens of thousands of dangerous offenders and putting MS13 gang members straight into your children’s schools. We’ve removed thousands and thousands of MS13 gang members. I want to thank ICE and I want to thank Border Patrol, and I want to thank our great law enforcement. Incredible people. They’re incredible.
 The people that understand those values are Kelly and David. They understand those values. You’re with our law enforcement, right? A hundred percent. I don’t have to ask her that. They’ll allow heroin, cocaine, fentanyl, and other deadly drugs to flood across our borders again, and poison our youth. They’ll take away your healthcare. They’ll eliminate private insurance. We have 180 million people that love their private insurance. You can forget about it. You’ll lose your doctor. Remember President Obama said, “You can keep your doctor. You can keep your plan.” Guess what? He said it 28 times. That was a lie. That was a lie. That turned out to be a big, great scam lie. Remember, I got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing in Obamacare, fighting a lot of different fronts, which really doesn’t make it Obamacare anymore, by the way. They’ll resume the war on Christians and attack Catholic organizations like Little Sisters of the Poor. They will ban voter ID. We want voter ID. Is that so much to ask? And institute universal, unsolicited mail-in balloting in every state.
 They will never be… I’ll tell you this. If we don’t do something fast, there will never be another fair election in America. We’re known for elections and now we’re being laughed out all over the world about this last election. You’ve got to swarm it tomorrow. Now, the good thing about tomorrow, it’s one state so you have a lot of eyeballs watching. It’s tougher than when you have 50 states and they do it to various states. I’ve never seen anything like it. I was leading in Pennsylvania by hundreds of thousands of votes. All of a sudden I was tied. I said, “What happened?” They’ll make Washington DC and other liberal places the 51st, 52nd, 53rd States of the Union guaranteeing the radical left a permanent majority of the U.S. Senate and the House and the electoral college. It will make it, really, a one party country, and the party will be the wrong party. They will pack the Supreme Court with crazed extremists and I’m not happy with the Supreme Court. They are not…
 Extremists. And I’m not happy with the Supreme Court. They are not stepping up to the plate. They’re not stepping up. How about that? Look at the Supreme Court, President of the United States. I want to file suit. I want to do… And they say, “Sir, you can’t, you really can’t do that.” Why? So they have legal reasons, complex legal reasons. It’s wrong. If you’re the President of the United States, and you get defrauded out of an election, you should be able to file a suit, but we can’t do that. They say, “Sir, you don’t have standing.” How about that? I’m the president, seven states, You know, I was winning by a lot. And then all of a sudden I was losing by a little, tiny bit, just a little, they can only go so far. They had no idea we were going to do the kind of numbers. So that printing press was really moving.
 And they say, I don’t have standing to bring a suit. What kind of a legal system is that? But the Supreme Court has led us down so far. Who knows? Maybe they’ll come back. Maybe they’ll come back. They’ll pack the Supreme Court with crazed extremists. Then there’ll be saying, “You know, I should have done something about this.” When they start having 24, 25, 26 justices, and they want to have the justices rotate to the lowest courts. So they’ll rotate. These nine justices will have a great time rotating, but they’re bent on destroying our constitution and overthrowing America’s founding.
 If the left wins these Senate seats, they will abolish the Senate. You know this. The filibuster, they will knock it out. I’ve been saying, to be honest with you for a long time, they’re going to do that, at some point, they’re going to do that. And why don’t we do it first? I said it. If they’re going to do it, you might as well do it first. And now everybody said, “You were right.” But you know what? I want to be wrong, because I want these two to win. Because if they win, we don’t want to do it. It’s a bad thing for our country. But that would give them the power to ram through every diluted piece of left-wing legislation that they’ve ever wanted, that they’ve ever dreamt up. Your religious liberty will be gone. Your second amendment will be gone. Your borders and great new world will be gone. Your police departments will be gone as we know them, and your life savings will be gone. We’ll be like a large scale version of so many other countries that you look at. That are poverty.
 America as you know it will be over. And it will never, I believe, be able to come back again. It will be too far gone. Your vote tomorrow could lose, and it could be your last chance to save the America that we love. That’s why I’m here. I don’t want to do rallies for other people. I told you. I’m here because of that. Because of David and Kelly, the far left wants to destroy our country, demolish our history, and erase everything that we hold dear. This could be the most important vote you will ever cast for the rest of your life. It really could be. This is so important. I mean, think of it. It’s so important. It’s amazing actually, that in one state you have two races simultaneously. I don’t think a thing like that’s ever happened before. If you don’t show up, the radical Democrats will win. A lot of people say, “Oh, well, Trump, maybe he wants it that way.” No. You know what I want? I want a great country. I want these two very special people to be elected.
 And I want to be clear. If those of you that know how badly screwed we got, I want to be clear that we can’t let that happen again. We can’t let that happen again. We’re going to come back, and I really believe we’re going to take what they did to us in November 3rd. We’re going to take it back. But these two people, they can’t go through this. They can’t go through it. If you don’t go and vote, the socialists, the Marxists, will be in charge of our country. If you don’t fight to save your country with everything you have, you’re not going to have a country left. I love this state. This state’s been very good to me. We’ve had a lot of victories in this state, just had one on November 3rd actually. And I love the people of this state. We can’t let that happen. The damage they do will be permanent, and will be irreversible. Can’t let it happen.
 Nothing and no one will be able to stop them. These Senate seats are truly the last line of defense. Now I must preface that by saying, because they’ll say, “He just conceded.” No, no, I concede. So Kelly, if I might add, I think we’re going to win, in which case we’ll be the last line of defense, it’s called veto, veto, veto. Veto. So tomorrow, you must get out and vote for David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler. Over the last four years, David Purdue has been one of our greatest allies and strongest defenders in Washington. He’s a great gentlemen. David was a critical vote in the right to pass the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We did that together. We got it done, launching an incredible economic boom. The greatest tax cuts in the history of our country, think of it. And the greatest restrictions, we were so restricted we couldn’t breathe in this country. That’s one of the big, I think it might’ve been more important in many ways than the tax cuts. You would know that being one of the great businessmen of our world.
 I think it was maybe more important. When Georgia needed a strong voice in Washington after Hurricane Michael, remember Hurricane Michael? And I was down here with David, but David Purdue led the charge to get the workers and farmers of your state the relief you deserved. He said, “Sir, can we get a billion dollars?” And I said, “We’re going to get it David. And we got it very fast.” And there was no mechanism to get it. You got hit with a hurricane like you have never seen before, came in from a location that is just very unique. It was a horrible thing. I was here for a long time with David, and he worked and his kin, his kin, the great Sonny Perdue, our Department of Agriculture, our Secretary of Agriculture was fantastic also, but we worked very hard, and we got the farmers and the businesses the money that they had to have. And now they’re thriving. David has also been one of the most courageous advocates fighting for an immigration system that defends American workers, American wages, American families, and American jobs. He led the effort in Congress to build the wall. That’s right.
 And Kelly helped on that she’s a little bit newer to the Senate, but she helped a lot. Those last moments you were there, without you it wouldn’t have happened, actually. Cracked out on deadly sanctuary cities, and chain migration and institute on parallel protection for our great citizens. He fought to help us replaced NAFTA disaster with the brand new USMCA, they said it couldn’t be done. A giant victory for Georgia, for workers, and for farmers all over our country. NAFTA was the worst trade deal probably ever signed. And that maybe has to exclude some of the crazy deals and things they did with China. We voted to confirm nearly 300 federal judges. We have a record on federal judges, and three Supreme Court justices, which is a tremendous thing. We have almost 300 federal judges committed to interpreting our constitution as written. No one fights harder for the people of Georgia than David Purdue. David’s opponent, Jon Ossoff is an unhinged radical leftist. He’s not a senator. He’s not a senator. That’s not a Senator. Ossoff said that he’s very proud to be endorsed by socialist crazy Bernie Sanders.
 He’s weak on China. He promoted Chinese propaganda and then he failed to disclose his business ties to the Chinese communist party. Other than that, he’s a wonderful guy, right? Ossoff supports the largest tax hike in American history. If they get in, Warnock and Ossoff, if they get in, you’re going to have the largest tax increase that you’ve ever had. It’ll be the largest tax increase in the history of our country. For what? The Green New Deal, let’s rip down a building because its windows are too big. Let’s build a building with no windows. Among many other things. He supports the insane Green New Deal, which would crush middle-class parents trying to raise a family. He will support the socialist takeover of American healthcare, which will lead to rationing poverty and death. Ossoff also backed the radical left wing crusade to defund police. The last summer, he proudly joined the anti-police mob, he didn’t like the police. He doesn’t like our police. We love our police. Slandering our brave men and women in blue.
 If you vote for Jon Ossoff, he will attack our heroes. He will destroy our economy, and he will betray you and your family. And it’ll happen very quickly. That’s why you must vote. And really importantly, get out tomorrow. Vote for David Perdue. He’s a great gentleman. He loves you. Georgia has another fantastic champion in Senator Kelly Loeffler. Kelly is a staunch defender of our incredible military. I’m so proud of our military. She supports the wall, and she always stands with the heroes of law enforcement, ICE and border patrol. I hated it, Kelly, when we got ballots in from the military with Trump all over it, and they got thrown into a river, you saw that. They threw ballots into a river from the military with my name all over it. We want Trump. Boom, goes into the river. That was just one of many instances of problem. Kelly is also a committed protector of your second amendment rights. With Kelly’s vote, we confirmed our third new Supreme Court justice Amy Coney Barrett.
 Working with David, Kelly helped rescue the US economy from the China virus, passing nearly $4 trillion in economic relief, saving over 1.5 million Georgia jobs, and rescuing countless small businesses all across your state. Businesses that now are doing really well, and we also came up with a vaccine. Nobody else would have done that. They would have done that in 10 years. Kelly and David also both strongly support my efforts to provide $2,000 stimulus checks to hardworking Americans across Georgia, and across the nation. And my reasoning is simple. I mean, we’re conservative with money, but my reasoning is simple. You didn’t cause this problem, this problem was caused by China. Kelly is running against a hard left extremist named Raphael Warnock. Warnock is the most radical and dangerous left-wing candidate ever to seek this office, and certainly in the state of Georgia, and he does not have your values. Warnock has publicly declared his support for socialism, and he once welcomed the anti-American communist dictator, Fidel Castro to his church. He wanted him here. He liked Castro. Thought Castro was a nice guy.
 Warnock said that quote, nobody can serve both God and the military. A vicious smear against thousands of patriotic service members across the state of Georgia. He wants to abolish cash bail. You see how that’s working in New York City, right? It’s not working too well. He has called for quote, opening up the jails, and he slandered our police offices as gangsters, thugs, and bullies. The choice for the voters of Georgia could not be more clear. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, are fringe extremists, who would wreck everything Georgia patriots hold dear to their hearts. Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue share your values, and you know that. They share your values like nobody shares your values. I can tell you, they share your values. They want to defend your interest. And they will always put America first.
 Did you see the other day? What a great name, America First. They announced they don’t want to do the America First policy. How crazy? Even if you’re not going to do it, which is basically protect us. We come first. But even, and that includes financially in every other way. Even if you don’t believe it, you don’t say we’re going to end America First. They want to end America First. Kelly, I’d love you to just come up and say a few words. Would that be okay? Kelly.
 We love you. Thank you. Thank you Kelly. That was nice. I’m glad I invited her up. Kelly, I’m glad I invited you up. That was great. Thank you Kelly. That was so great.
 Thank you. Thank you. You know, it really is. It’s fight for our country. It’s really fight for our country, not fight for Trump. It’s fight for our country, because that’s why we’re fighting for. Also joining us tonight are Georgia representatives, Marjorie Taylor Greene. I love Marjorie Taylor too. Where are you? Come up here. Kelly wants you to come up here. Don’t mess with her. Don’t mess with her.
 I also want to introduce two great warriors, friends of mine, Andrew Clyde and Jody Hice. Jody, thank you. Thank you, Andrew. Thank you very much. Great job. We have another friend of ours, South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham. And Mike Lee is here too, but I’m a little angry at him today. Where’s Mike Lee, Where is he? I’m a little angry at you today, but that’s… State representative Vernon Jones. What a great guy he is. A great man. And an early supporter of mine who’s also on the ballot tomorrow. Public service commissioner Bubba McDonald. Bubba. You’re going to do great.
 Great guy. Thank you, Bubba. Thank you. Good luck tomorrow. You’ll do well. Georgia Republican party chairman David Schaefer, and he’s fighting. He’s out there. He is fighting. He is fighting. By the way, I also want to say hello to, Kelly’s husband is one of the great entrepreneurs in our country. He’s respected by everybody. He’s a tough guy, but he is a sweetheart, and he loves your state. I just want to say hello. Do you mind? Okay. He doesn’t want that. He doesn’t want it, but I will tell, you he’s respected as a businessman, respected by everybody, and gives tremendous amounts of money to charity and everything else. Thank you very much.
 Also a friend of mine, and I don’t know what it is. I’m not so good with the bikes. I sort of say, maybe I stay away from it a little bit, but Chris Cox is Bikers for Trump. And he’s the founder, and he had more people show up for me. Whenever I saw, I’d go to places, I’d have two, three, 4,000 bikes, and secret service would go crazy. I’d say, “No, I’m so happy.” And they wouldn’t do it for any other reason. They just wanted to protect their future president. This was before I won, they were with me for whatever reason, bikers like me. And I like them. Chris Cox, wherever you are Chris Cox. Where is Chris? I don’t know why the bikers like me, Chris, but they do. But I like you guys a lot, and you’re great. We go to speeches and we’d be packed, and we couldn’t even get them, they didn’t even want to be inside. They stood outside. And they were protecting their president when I became president, I never felt safer in my life. Thank you. That’s true.
 Another man who’s respected by everybody, a friend of mine. David McIntosh Club for Growth. David, David. Thank you, David. Respected by everybody. And I want to thank Don Jr. Did he do a good job tonight? I watched. Where is Don? Don is great. I love Don. They love our Don, but he’s working hard, and I want to thank Don and Kimberly Guilfoyle, who is incredible. And I also came with somebody who people like a lot, people like her a lot. I don’t know. She doesn’t really like the concept of running for office. She says, “What do I need it for, dad?” Ivanka. Where’s Ivanka? Come on, come, come. Should we get Ivanka up yes, right? Come on up here honey.
 Thank you Ivanka. Thanks Don. Kimberly, everybody. Thank you all. Tomorrow our entire nation is counting on the people of Georgia in a way the world is counting on the people of Georgia. The fate of our country is at stake. It’s in your hands. You must deliver a Republican victory so big that the Democrats can’t steal it or cheat it away. We have all … They’ll be trying though, I’ll tell you that. We have all seen what our opponents are capable of doing. I ran two elections. I won both of them. Second one, much more successful than the first, but we can’t let this happen any longer. On election night, we were leading by so much. We’re not going to have that tomorrow. We’re not going to have that tomorrow night, where you’re leading and then all of a sudden, boom, it’s gone like magic. We won Florida and Ohio in record numbers.
 We won Iowa by 8.2%. Nobody’s ever won those three States and lost. Never happened before. It’s almost impossible unless people do a lot of … Either get very lucky or they cheat. We’re up 293,000 votes in Michigan, 112,000 votes in Washington. In Wisconsin we were way up, 356,000 votes. In Georgia, 356,000 and 700,000 votes in Pennsylvania. It was over. I should have run up to the podium and said, thank you very much for this wonderful victory. Then maybe they wouldn’t have had time to close those booths, the counting rooms, and do what they did. But then it all started to disappear. I tell this story because we can’t let this happen tomorrow, Kelly. So keep your eyes open. Since the election, we have put forth indisputable evidence documenting the rampant fraud, which will be announced on Wednesday as you know.
 And I want to thank Senator Josh Hawley and Ted Cruz and all of the incredible senators that have stepped up to fight, because they’ve seen what happens. They know it’s a fraud and not just here. I watched some of the people on Fox. I had no choice. I had no choice. I had to. I didn’t have enough channels. And they said, “Why is he fighting for Georgia? It’s not enough.” And I need three. I’m fighting in eight, actually, but six and we’re going to win them all. But they said, “Why?” So one of the people, a very fine woman actually, but she said, “Why is he fighting Georgia? It doesn’t get him there.” I said, “No, but Georgia and Pennsylvania and one other get me there. And we have six and maybe eight, if you look at them and we were leading all of them by a lot, until, like a miracle, it started to quickly disappear.”
 Right here in Georgia there were tens of thousands of illegal votes cast and counted. You know that. And here are just a few examples. Watch this for tomorrow. We were up 10,315 ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of birth matches a Georgia resident who died in 2020 prior to the election. Then your wacky secretary of state said two people, two people. Now, I don’t know how many people are on that list, but it’s a lot of people. 2,506 ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of birth matches an incarcerated felon in a Georgia prison. Maybe they aren’t all there, but they did a lot of work. They paid a lot of money to a lot of people. I can tell you that. 4,502 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on the state’s voter rolls. Well, that’s sort of strange. 18,325 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote using an address listed as vacant according to the postal service. At least 86,880 ballots were cast by people whose registrations were illegally backdated. Oh, I can’t believe that happened.
 66,000 votes … You have to understand, we’re down by a little more than 11,000. So every one of these is determinative. 66,000 votes in Georgia were cast by people under the legal voting age. At least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3rd election, or maybe they moved back in. I don’t know. I mean, I can’t tell. They moved out, ah, let’s go back. Usually takes a little time, right? We moved out. Let’s go back, darling. Georgia’s absentee ballot rejection rate went from an average of 3% in 2016, and then went down very low to almost zero now. Think of it, almost zero. If you multiply that out. And this is with many, many more ballots pouring in. Went to almost zero. 48 out of 159 counties in Georgia rejected no ballots at all. These absentee ballot rejection rates prove that the tens of thousands of illegitimate ballots were counted. There were more absentee ballots in 2020 than ever before by [inaudible 00:53:36]. But magically far fewer ballots were rejected. This alone is more than enough to swing the election to us. This one thing. I’m going over individual. In all of the swing States. Now they’ll check this out and that’s fine, but you take a look at it. Officials, egregiously violated state laws in order to solicit, facilitate and promote cheating and theft on a scale never seen before. These crooked and incompetent official suspended signature verification. I said, I want you to go to Fulton County to check the signatures, because hundreds of thousands of ballots came in. I want you to check the signature to see if it compares to somebody that lived there two years, four years or six years ago. They don’t want to do it. The secretary of state and your incompetent governor. Although he thinks I’ve been a great president. They illegally flooded their States with absentee ballots and they deployed hundreds of elicit ballot drop boxes and corrupt Democrat run cities, among many other flagrant violations of law.
 They put these drop boxes there. And in a number of they’d be gone for three days. They’d take them up and where are they? Where are they? They were gone. Georgia secretary of state agreed to a litigation settlement, which is something that nobody’s ever seen one like this. I want to just tell you that Stacey Abrams took him to the cleaners. That drastically and illegally changed the states election procedures. They never got the mandated approval from your state legislature, who, by the way, you have some great people in your legislature. Some great, great people who agree with what we’re saying and even more so.
 But think of it. They never got the approval. You have to, by law, under the constitution, you can’t just do these deals and not get the approval and your secretary of state or whoever it was, made this horrible consent decree, horrible, which got rid of so much safety. It’s a disgraceful thing. And it was only approved by your local politicians, him, and local judges. You can’t do that. You have to have your state legislatures do it. That’s true with all States. Tens of thousands of votes are missing. We go all over the world telling people how to run their elections and we don’t even know how to run ours. The most unhappy person right now, anywhere in the United States is Hillary Clinton. Because she’s asking the Democrat party, why the hell didn’t you do this for me? True. Why didn’t you do it for me? Why the hell didn’t you? You notice how quiet she’s been? I shouldn’t have said that, not tonight Jill. But you notice how quiet … she’s furious, because she said, “Don’t forget, I won Michigan by 10,000 votes.” We did much better. As I said, this time. Much, much better, but I won Michigan from her by 10,000 votes. I won Wisconsin by a small … I mean, they could have done that one and not get caught. We caught him, we caught him.
 And I say to people like Mike Lee, that here at Lindsey, I say, if they got approved and verified, they use the word verified, votes that are fraudulent. And then we find out after, because you can’t do it that quickly. It doesn’t go that quickly. It’s a lot of work and a lot of votes and a lot of people. And then we find out that they were frauds like in one state where you had, let’s say you lost by 25,000 votes. They verify it. And that’s supposed to be the end. But shortly thereafter, we find out that we actually won the state by 250,000 votes. Does that mean that that state plus others adds up to being your president? I don’t think it should. I don’t think it should. I don’t think that Kelly feels it should. I don’t think that Marjorie feels it should. In Wisconsin over 90,000 ballots where illegally harvested. Can’t do that. Not allowed to.
 Through so-called human drop boxes and over 500 illegal unmanned drop boxes were put out statewide. In addition, over 170,000 absentee votes were counted that are blatantly illegal under Wisconsin law and should never have been included in the tally. By the way, I lost the … It was razor thin. There’s 170,000 votes. The margin in Wisconsin is only 20,000 votes. So this issue alone would have won that state for us many times over, we were leading at 10 o’clock in the evening by a lot. In Pennsylvania, there were 205,000 more ballots cast than there were voters. How do you get around that one?
 Which remains completely unexplained. You have great senators and representatives there and nobody can explain it, but think of that. And in other places too, you had more ballots than you had voters. You had more votes, think of it, then you had voters by a lot. In addition, Democrats, state Supreme court judges and Democrat secretary of state effectively abolished the signature verification process right here. They counted ballots cast after deadlines and they allowed ballots to be illegally fixed in Democrat controlled areas. And I say this because you can’t let this happen tomorrow. And I hope all the politicians are listening. There’s an unexplained 400,000 vote discrepancy between the number of mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania sent out reported on November 2nd, 2020. And the number reported on November 4th. They can’t explain it. 400,000 previously unreported mail-in ballots, magically appeared. They couldn’t explain it. And all of a sudden they just happened to find 400,000. That’s a lot of people.
 Amazing. And the Pennsylvania legislature is not happy. Pennsylvania also had an estimated 8,000 dead voters, 55,000 ballots received back before they were even sent. How about that? The ballots were received, but they weren’t sent yet. Oh, get them out fast please. Many more with no mail date and 14,000 ballots illegally cast by out of state voters. Those are the numbers and those are the numbers we got from them. So they can’t say, Oh, the numbers aren’t so good. In Clark County, Nevada, over 130,000 ballots, this is far, just so you know, all these numbers, these are far more than we need, we’re processed on machines where the signature matching threshold was intentionally lowered to a level that you could sign your name, Santa clause, and it wouldn’t pick it up. Didn’t pick up anything. More than 42,000 people in Nevada double voted. That’s more than we needed, by far.
 In Arizona more than 36,000 votes were cast by non citizens. And there were 11,000 more ballots than there were voters. It seems to be a trait, doesn’t it? This was like at the Super Bowl, where you have 15 cameras and they’d say camera number four, you’re on. Camera number three, you’re on. In Michigan, according to one analyst, over 35,000 ballots listed no address, over 13 ballots were cast by non-residents and an estimated 17,000 ballots were cast by dead people. Some dead people, by the way, also requested an application through. Those are the ones that really bothered me. They not only vote, but they request an application. That’s a double. In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting machines.
 And I want you to watch this very carefully tomorrow everybody, you have to watch it carefully. I want to read you from a letter from Georgia state Senator William Ligon. You know who he is, right? Highly respected guy. “Dear Mr president, as chairman of the Georgia Senate judiciary committee on elections. I request that you immediately send an outside team of cyber experts to investigate potential hacking and other irregularities associated with Dominion voting systems, scanners, ballot marking devices, ballots, polling pads used in the 2020 general election in Georgia.” You don’t hear this from your secretary of state and you don’t hear this from your governor and you do have a great legislature. I have to tell you, but the governor won’t let him hold the session to decertify. On December 30th, 2020, the committee held a hearing investigating potential fraud and other irregularities during Georgia’s 2020 general election.
 The committee first unanimously approved a report dated December 17th, 2020, discussing a myriad of voting irregularities and potential fraud in Georgia 2020 general election, disgusted in an earlier hearing held on December 3rd. Notably the committee stated in the executive summary that the November 3rd 2020 general election was chaotic and reported results must be viewed as untrustworthy. They are untrustworthy, despite the line of crap that you hear from these people that represent you. I don’t know where they come from. The committee then heard, and this is from one of your most highly respected political representatives, the committee then heard additional testimony concerning voting irregularities during the 2020 general election, including testimony and a real time test demonstrating serious irregularities with Dominion’s voting machines. Three events discussed at this hearing standout and require a forensic auditor of the Dominion voting machines in Georgia to be immediately conducted.
 The governor will not let us do it. We’ve been asking them now since November 4th, the day after the election, he won’t let us do it. Why won’t he let us do it? There’s only one reason I can think of. First the Dominion voting machines employed in Fulton County. That’s the home of Stacey. Had an astounding 93.67 error rate. 93.67 error rate in the scanning of ballots requiring a review panel to adjudicate or determine the voters intent. So they’re going to a voter intent. What did the voter mean by this vote? Somebody votes for Trump. I think that voter meant something other. He doesn’t want Trump. Let’s just switch it around.
 Think of that. They’re trying to determine the voters intent in over 106,000 ballots out of a total of 113,000 ballots. This is from your representative, highly respected. The national average for such an error rate is far less than 1.2%. So, that was 93%. The source of this astronomical error rate must be identified to determine if these machines were set up were designated to allow for a third party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter. This is what I have. There was no way. Look at this crowd we have here. Biden came here. He had nobody.
 Gallup, Gallup. You know, the Gallup poll. They did a … I don’t say this braggingly, the most admired man in the world or the country. I don’t say it. I say it for a different reason. So, I came in first. Obama came in second and Biden came in way low. Then I say, and they say, and people have said, how is it possible that a guy who got 80 million votes can’t get any votes for the most admired man. You know why? Because he didn’t come in first. That’s why.
 Second, again from this very respected political leader, second, there is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were switched from president Trump to former vice president Biden in several counties throughout Georgia. For example, in Bibb County, anybody live in Bibb County? Bibb, Bibb, B-I-B-B. President Trump was reported to a 29,391 votes at 9:11 PM, while simultaneously former vice-president Joe Biden was reported to have 17,000 to 18. Minutes later at the next update these vote numbers switched with president Trump now having 17,000. And Biden now having 29,391. That was a switch of over 12,000 votes. It was like a miracle. Third, during this hearing, a presenter demonstrated that a Dominion Poll could be hacked into in real time because it was connected to the internet. Now, anything connected to the internet, that’s not good, but this demonstration proved that these machines could allow votes to be siphoned off or added during the voting process because they’re connected to the internet.
 Cybersecurity experts agree that voting machines should not be connected to the internet at any time and in any way, shape or form. Did you see that during the hearing? This guy sitting there. Well, can you connect into the machines? Yes. How do you do that? Within about 25 seconds, he controlled the internet. Former vice-president Biden led Georgia by only 11,779 votes. Every one of the things I told you about almost is more votes than what we’re talking about. The crime that was committed in this state is immeasurable and immediate forensic audit of an appropriate sampling of Dominion’s voting machines and related equipment is critical to determine the level …
 … Machines and related equipment is critical to determine the level of illegal fraudulent ballots, improperly counted in Georgia during the 2020 general election and during tomorrow’s race. You’ve got to be very careful. And, let me also quickly read a letter from Mark Finchem, chairman of the Arizona House, a very respected man, Federal Relations Committee. “Dear Mr. President, subsequent to the election, members of the legislature were inundated with complaints from constituents relating to the intensity of the general election, and the integrity more important than anything else, and the accuracy of canvassed results.” “In many instances, constituents reported that their earlier in-person ballots may not have been correctly processed, or tabulated in Maricopa County officials.” “Members of the legislature have conducted two public hearings in recent weeks during which significant evidence of fraudulent and illegal voting in Arizona has been demonstrated through expert and eyewitness testimony, for example, in Pima County and Maricopa County, it appears that 143,000 illegal votes were actually injected into the ballot system.” Think of that. No, but think of this.
 Also, the press won’t report this, they probably turn it off, oh, we don’t like this. They don’t like this. They don’t want to talk about numbers. They talked about my phone call. They don’t like my phone call, everyone loved my phone call. They don’t like talking about numbers, because nobody knew the numbers were so egregious. Also, an expert mathematician concluded that the only explanation for the actual voting results in Arizona is that 100%… Think of this, 130% of Democrats voted for candidate Biden, and a negative 30% voted for President Trump. Now, think of that. In order to get to the numbers 130% of the voters, that’s a little tough to get, okay, had to vote for him, and minus 30 had to vote for me, and that gets you to a 100%. And, nobody has a 100% voting.
 For all of these people who think it’s too late, does that mean that we’re forced to approve a fraudulent election or an election with massive irregularities? I don’t think so. [crosstalk 01:11:32] I don’t think so. I want to thank those two great political leaders, but we have many other letters just like that. Same thing. Hundreds of thousands of votes are missing. The only way to combat the Democrat fraud is to flood your polling places with a historic tidal wave of Republican voters tomorrow.
 Because at a certain point, the machines are going to explode. They almost did with me, unfortunately they didn’t quite get there, but we’ll figure that out. And, I just want Mike Lee to listen to this when I’m talking, because you know what? We need his vote. This election is your chance to stand up to the corrupt Democrat machine, and show them that the American people are still in charge.
 With your help over the last four years, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country. There’s never been anything like this. Kelly, when did I say, we’ll do this, like two days ago, three days ago, right? And, look at this, and we love you all for being here, we really do. I’m glad the weathers good, we love you all. But, there’s never been a movement like this. I say it all the time, and the politicians, the lame stream medias, I call them affectionately, if that weren’t true they’d say, “That’s wrong, there’s never been a movement like this.” I mean, you have people that won one state, and they become world famous for the rest of their lives.
 You have people that came in second in New Hampshire and their [inaudible 00:04:06], we won everything and we won it now a second time. Hate to bore you with that expression. But, we won it now a second time. And, I don’t want to win it a third time, I really want to win it the second time, [inaudible 00:04:18]. Somebody came up to me today, Kelly, and they said, “Sir, you way up in four years, nobody can come close to me.” I said, “I’m not interested in four years, I’m interested in like eight weeks ago.”
 Four years is a long time. It’s actually two in two, we’ll take back the house for [crosstalk 01:13:42] Kevin and Marjorie. Jodi, we’ll bring back the house, right? We’ll bring back the house.
 No, we didn’t win, I’d be all upset. Of course, If I didn’t win, you probably wouldn’t want me, you know in all [inaudible 01:14:05].
 A Big difference between losing and winning and having it stolen. No, but they talk about for years, sir, you haven’t made, nobody can come closer and I say, “Nope, we go this way first.” And, I think we’re going to do it. I really believe, because there’s no [crosstalk 01:14:23] way we could have won every single state, and for Fox, not one state, this is one of many. We win every state, and they’re going to have this guy be president and he can’t speak, he can’t talk. Already, we’ve achieved more than anyone thought possible. And, we are just getting started.
 And honestly, it’s you, it’s amazing what happened. I don’t even know why the hell I say let’s have a rally. We have a rally and thousands and thousands [inaudible 01:14:51] Honestly, I’ll go out on the extreme, there’s never been anything like this in the history of our country. And, the election is over, the presidential election, and we have a big one tomorrow, but there’s never been anything like this in the history of our country. Our economy is coming back. It’s roaring back. Our stock market is an all time high. Who would have thought that? We’re rounding the turn, because of what we did with the vaccines. And, nobody else would have done it, it would have taken so long. The economy boomed at 33. 4% last quarter, that’s the fastest rate ever recorded. And, we’re talking about [crosstalk 01:15:37] pandemic during a pandemic. We’ve already slashed the unemployment rate in half. And for decades, our politicians spend trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders. You know, we’re bringing many of our great troops home. I mean, I hate to say it, but got to do it. We’ve been in Afghanistan for 19 years, I think that’s enough. I think that’s enough. We’ve got very few left and [crosstalk 01:16:09] very proud. Nothing worse than going to Dover and meeting the parents of our great warriors that have fallen, our great warriors coming home so badly wounded or dead. And, on countries that many of you have never even heard about. So, we bring our soldiers home. We’ve been incredible warriors, we can beat anybody. Nobody has our equipment, nobody has our military, nobody has our people-
 … but we aren’t over there to be policemen. We’re not over there to be policing, they’re warriors, they’re fighters, and that’s what we want them for. That’s what we have to have them for. But, we brought a lot of them home. We are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we’re bringing our jobs, our factories and our troops back to the USA where they belong.
 But everything that we’ve achieved together is on the line tomorrow. Our fight to take back our country from the big donors, the big media and the horrendous big tech giant that our politicians, not these two politicians, are afraid to attack. Section 230, we have to get rid of Section 230 politiains-
 … or you’re not going to have a country very long, taken away all your rights. If you-
 … want to send a message to the powerful forces that are trying to control your country, you must get out and vote tomorrow for David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler.
 With your help, we’re going to continue our mission to save America, and we’re going to continue our mission of America first. It’s very simple.
 Each of us here tonight is United by the same core vision, and the same timeless American values. We love our country. Together, we believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the center of American life.
 We will defend the right to life, [crosstalk 01:18:19] religious Liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms, which they want to take away from you.
 And, we will always support the heroes of law enforcement.
 We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will preserve peace through strength.
 You know when I first got elected and before I got elected in 2015 and 2016, before they were in debates and everyone said, “Oh, he’s going to cause Wars, he’s going to cause wars.” I think I’m the only president in many, many decades that didn’t [crosstalk 01:19:00] get into a war, right.
 [inaudible 00:10:04]. Remember North Korea was going to be a tremendous nuclear fight, and all this, what happened with that? I got along very well with Kim Jong-un. I don’t think that Joe’s going to based on what I’ve heard, but I got along very well with him. And people say, “Whatever happened with North Korea, we got along well.” But, they all said that, “With my personality, I’ll be in a big war very soon within the first two weeks.” What happened? And, they don’t want to mess with us either, that [crosstalk 01:19:35] I can tell you.
 David and Kelly will protect Social Security and Medicare, and they will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools.
 We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag.
 And, we will live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust, and it will stay that way.
 From Atlanta to Augusta, to Savannah, to Columbus, from Athens… And, I want to say hello to Herschel Walker, Athens.
 Herschel [crosstalk 01:20:28]. 10.2 yards of carry for a while, he made a lot of quarterbacks look very good. We love Hershel. To right here in Dalton, Georgia, we inherit the legacy of generations of American Patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settle the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers that won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come.
 And, proud citizens like you helped build this country. And, together we are taking back our country, our fight to drain the Washington swamp and reclaim America’s destiny and dignity has only just begun. We will not bend, we will not break, we will not yield. We will never give in, we will never give up, we will never back down. We will never, ever surrender.
 Because, we are Americans [crosstalk 01:21:56] and we are from Georgia-
 … and our hearts bleed red, white and blue.
 We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And, together with the incredible people of Georgia, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again, our stock market. We have made America strong again, look at that arm, look at…
 We have made America proud again, we’re proud of our country. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Go get him, David, go get him, Kelly, go get them tomorrow.
 Okay, thank you very much. Hello Brad and Ryan and everybody. We appreciate the time and the call. So we’ve spent a lot of time on this and if we could just go over some of the numbers, I think it’s pretty clear that we won. We won very substantially in Georgia. You even see it by rally size, frankly. We’d be getting 25-30,000 people a rally and the competition would get less than 100 people. And it never made sense. But we have a number of things. We have at least 2 or 3, anywhere from 250-300,000 ballots were dropped mysteriously into the rolls. Much of that had to do with Fulton County, which hasn’t been checked. We think that if you check the signatures, a real check of the signatures going back in Fulton County, you’ll find at least a couple of hundred thousand of forged signatures of people who have been forged. And we are quite sure that’s going to happen.
 Another tremendous number. We’re going to have an accurate number over the next two days with certified accountants, but an accurate number will be given. But it’s in the fifties of thousands and that’s people that went to vote and they were told they can’t vote because they’ve already been voted for. And it’s a very sad thing. They walked out complaining, but the number is large we’ll have it for you, but it’s much more than the number of 11,779. The current margin is only 11,779. Brad, I think you agree with that, right? That’s something, I think, at least that’s a number that everyone agrees on. But that’s the difference in the votes. But we had hundreds of thousands of ballots that were able to… Actually, we’ll get you a pretty accurate number.
 You don’t need much of a number because the number that in theory I lost by, the margin would be 11,779. But you also have a substantial numbers of people, thousands and thousands who went to the voting place on November 3, were told they couldn’t vote, were told they couldn’t vote because a ballot had been put on their name. And you know that’s very, very, very, very sad. We had, I believe it’s about 4,502 voters who voted but who weren’t on the voter registration list. So it’s 4,502 who voted but they weren’t on the voter registration roll which they had to be. You had 18,325 vacant address voters. The address was vacant and they’re not allowed to be counted. That’s 18,325. A smaller number, you had 904 who only voted where they had just a P.O., A post office box number.
 And they had a post office box number and that’s not allowed. We had at least 18,000, that’s on tape, we had them counted very painstakingly. 18,000 voters having to do with Ruby Freeman. She’s a vote scammer, a professional vote scammer and hustler Ruby Freeman. That was the tape that’s been shown all over the world that makes everybody look bad, you, me and everybody else, where they got number one, they said very clearly. And it’s been reported that they said there was a major water main break. Everybody fled the area. And then they came back Ruby Freeman and her daughter and a few people. There was no Republican poll Watchers. Actually, there were no Democrat poll Watchers, I guess they were them. But there were no Democrats either and there was no law enforcement.
 Early in the morning they went to the table with the black robe, the black shield and they pulled out the votes. Those votes were put there a number of hours before the table was put there. I think it was, Brad you would know, it was probably eight hours or seven hours before and then it was stuffed with votes. They weren’t in an official voter box, they were in what looked to be suitcases. But they weren’t in voter boxes. The minimum number it could be because we watched it and they watched it certified in slow motion instant replay if you can believe it, but slow motion and it was magnified many times over and the minimum it was 18,000 ballots, all for Biden.
 You had out-of-state voters, they voted in Georgia, but they were from out of state of 4,925. You had absentee ballot sent to a vacant, they were absentee ballots sent to vacant addresses. They had nothing on them about addresses. That’s 2,326. And you had drop boxes, which is very bad. You had drop boxes that were picked up. We have photographs and we have affidavits from many people. I don’t know if you saw the hearings, but you have drop boxes where the box was picked up but not delivered for three days. So all sorts of things could have happened to that box including, putting in the votes that you wanted. So there were many infractions and the bottom line is, many, many times the 11,779 margin that they said we lost by… We had vast, I mean, you have, the state is in turmoil over this, and I know you would like to get to the bottom of it.
 Although I saw you on television today, and you said that you found nothing wrong. I mean, and I didn’t lose the state, Brad. People have been saying that it was the highest vote ever. There was no way… A lot of the political people said that there’s no way they beat me. And they beat me. They beat me in the… As you know, every single state… We won every state. We won every State House in the country. We held the Senate which is shocking to people, although we’ll see what happens tomorrow or in a few days. And we won the House. And we won Congress, which was supposed to lose 15 seats, and they gained, I think 16 or 17 or something. I think there’s now a difference of five. That was supposed to be a different substantially more.
 But politicians in every state, but politicians in Georgia have given affidavits and are going to that there was no way they’d beat me in the election that the people came out. In fact, they were expecting to lose. And then they ended up winning by a lot because of the coattails. And they said, there’s no way that they’ve done many polls prior to the election. There was no way that they won. Ballots were dropped in massive numbers and we’re trying to get to those numbers. And we will have them. They’ll take a period of time, certified. But they’re massive numbers and far greater than the 11,779. The other thing, dead people. So dead people voted. And I think the number is close to 5,000 people. And they went to obituaries. They went to all sorts of methods to come up with an accurate number. And a minimum is close to about 5,000 voters. The bottom line is when you add it all up and then you start adding 300, 000 fake ballots.
 Then the other thing they said is in Fulton County and other areas, and this may or may not, because this just came up this morning, that they are burning their ballots, that they are shredding ballots and removing equipment. They’re changing the equipment on the Dominion machines. And that’s not legal. And they supposedly shredded, I think they said 3000 pounds of ballots. And that just came to us as a report today. And it’s a very sad situation. But Brad, if you took the minimum numbers were many, many times above the 11,779, and many of those numbers are certified or they will be certified. But they are certified. Those are numbers that are there that exist. And that beat the margin, the margin of loss, they beat it, I mean, by a lot.
 And people should be happy to have an accurate count, instead of an election where there’s turmoil. I mean there’s turmoil in Georgia and other places. You’re not the only one. I mean, we have other States that I believe will be flipping to us very shortly. But this is something that’s, as an example, I think in Detroit, and I think there’s a good section of your state actually, which we’re not sure, so we’re not going to report it yet. But in Detroit we had, I think it was 139% of the people voted. That’s not too good. And Pennsylvania, they had well over 200,000 more votes than they had people voting. And that doesn’t play too well. And the legislature there is, which is Republican, is extremely activist and angry. But I mean, there were other things also that were almost as bad as that. But they had, as an example of Michigan, a tremendous number of dead people that voted, I think Mark it was 18,000.
 Some unbelievably high number, much higher than yours. You were in the 4 to 5,000 category. And that was checked out laboriously by going through the obituary columns in the newspapers. So I guess with all of it being said, Brad, the bottom line and provisional ballots, again, you’ll have to tell me about the provisional ballots. But we have a lot of people that were complaining that they weren’t able to vote because they were already voted for. These are great people. And they were shell shocked. I don’t know if you’d call that provisional ballots. In some States, we had a lot of provisional ballot situations where people were given a provisional ballot because when they walked into November 3rd, they were already voted for. So that’s it. I mean, we have many, many times the number of votes necessary to win this State and we won the State and we won it very substantially and easily and we’re getting… We have… Much of this is they’re certified, far more certified that we need. But we’re getting additional number certified too. And we’re getting pictures of drop boxes being delivered and delivered late and delivered three days later in some cases, plus we have many affidavits to that effect.
 Well, Brad. Not that there’s not an issue, because we have a big issue with Dominion in other states and perhaps in yours. But we haven’t felt we needed to go there. And just to maybe put a little different spin on what Mark is saying, Mark Meadows, yeah we’d like to go further, but we don’t really need to. We have all the votes we need. We won the state. If you took, these are the most minimal numbers, the numbers that I gave you.
 These are the most minimal numbers, the numbers that I gave you, those are numbers that are certified, your absentee ballots sent to vacant addresses, your out-of-state voters, 4,925. When you add them up, it’s many more times, it’s many times the 11,779 number. So we could go through … we have not gone through your Dominion, so we can’t give them blessing. I mean, in other states, we think we found tremendous corruption with Dominion machines, but we’ll have to see. But we only lost the state by that number, 11,000 votes, and 779. So with that being said, with just what we have we’re giving you minimal numbers. We’re doing the most conservative numbers possible. We’re many times, many, many times above the margin. Mark, I don’t think we have to go through each-
 Because what’s the difference between winning the election by two votes and winning it by half a million votes. I think I probably did win it by half a million. One of the things that happened, Brad, is we have other people coming in now from Alabama and from South Carolina, and from other states, and they’re saying it’s impossible for you to have lost Georgia. We won … in Alabama we set a record, got the highest vote ever. In Georgia, we set a record with a massive amount of votes. And they say it’s not possible to have lost Georgia. And I can tell you by our rallies, I can tell you by the rally I’m having on Monday night, the place they already have lines of people standing out front waiting. It’s just not possible to have lost Georgia, it’s not possible.
 When I heard it was close, I said, “There’s no way.” But they dropped a lot of votes in there late at night, you know that, Brad. And that’s what we are working on very, very stringently. But regardless of those votes, with all of it being said, we lost by essentially 11,000 votes, and we have many more votes already calculated and certified too. So I just don’t know, Mark, I don’t know what’s the purpose. I won’t give Dominion a pass because we found too many bad things. But we don’t need Dominion or anything else. We have won this election in Georgia based on all of this. And there’s nothing wrong with saying that, Brad. I mean, having the correct … the people of Georgia are angry. And these numbers are going to be repeated on Monday night, along with others that we’re going to have by that time, which are much more substantial even.
 And the people of Georgia are angry, the people of the country are angry. And there’s nothing wrong with saying that you’ve recalculated. Because the 2,236 in absentee ballots, I mean, they’re all exact numbers that were done by accounting firms, law firms, et cetera. And even if you cut them in half, cut them in half, and cut them in half again, it’s more votes than we need.
 Well, Cleta, how do you respond to that? I mean, you tell me.
 [crosstalk 00:20:48] But Cleta, even before you do that and not even including that, that’s why I hardly even included that number, although in one state, we have a tremendous amount of dead people so I don’t know. I’m sure we do in Georgia, too. I’m sure we do in Georgia, too. But is that we’re so far ahead of these numbers, even the phony ballots of Ruby Freeman, known scammer. You know the internet, you know what was trending on the internet? “Where’s Ruby?” Because they thought she’d be in jail. “Where’s Ruby?” It’s crazy, it’s crazy. The minimum number is 18,000 for Ruby, but they think it’s probably about 56,000. But the minimum number is 18,000 on the Ruby Freeman night where she ran back in there when everybody was gone and she stuffed the ballot boxes. Let’s face it, Brad, I mean, they did it in slow motion replay magnified, right? She stuffed the ballot boxes. They were stuffed like nobody has ever seen them stuffed before.
 So there’s a term for it when it’s a machine instead of a ballot box, but she stuffed the machine. She stuffed the ballot. Each ballot went three times, they were showing, here’s ballot number, here it is a second time, third time, next ballot. I mean, look, Brad, we have a new tape that we’re going to release, it’s devastating. And by the way, that one event is much more than the 11,000 votes that we’re talking about. That one event was a disaster. But it was something that … it can’t be disputed. And again, we have a version that you haven’t seen, but it’s magnified. It’s magnified and you can see everything. For some reason, they put it in three times, each ballot and I don’t know why three times. Why not five times, right? Yeah, go ahead.
 Where were the poll watchers, Brad? There were no poll watchers there, there were no Democrats or Republicans. There was no security there. It was late in the evening, late in the early … in the morning. And there was nobody else in the room. Where were the poll watches? And why did they say a water main broke, which they did, and which is reported in the newspapers. They said they left. They ran out because of a water main break. And there was no water main, there was nothing. There was no break. There was no water main break. But if you take out everything, where were the Republican poll watchers, even where was the Democrat poll watchers? Because there were none. And then you say, “Well, they left their station.” If you look at the tape and this was reviewed by professional police and detectives, and other people. When they left in a rush, everybody left in a rush because of the water main, but everybody left in a rush. These people left their station.
 When they came back, they didn’t go to their station. They went to the apron wrapped around the table, under which were thousands and thousands of ballots in a box that was not an official or a sealed box. And then they took those and they went back to a different station. So if they would have come back, they would have walked to their station, and they would have continued to work. But they couldn’t do even that because that’s illegal, because they had no Republican poll watchers. And remember, her reputation is … she’s known all over the internet, Brad. She’s known all over. I’m telling you, “Where’s Ruby?” was one of the hot items on the … Ruby, they knew her. “Where’s Ruby?” So Brad, there can be no justification for that. And I give everybody the benefit of the doubt. But that was … and Brad, why did they put the votes in three times? They put them in three times.
 Where was everybody else at that late time in the morning? Where was everybody? Where were the Republicans? Where were the security guards? Where were the people that were there just a little while before when everyone ran out of the room? How come we had no security in the room? Why did they run to the bottom of the table? Why do they run there and just open the skirt and rip out the votes. I mean, Brad, and they were sitting there, I think for five hours or something like that, the votes. But they just all happened to run back and go … you know, Brad.
 I don’t care about a link, I don’t need it. Brad, I have a much better link [crosstalk 00:26:18].
 It was 18,000 ballots, but they used each one three times.
 Well, I do because we had ours magnified out [crosstalk 00:26:57].
 But nobody can make a case for that, Brad, nobody. I mean, look, you’d have to be a child to think anything other than that, just a child. I mean, you have you never-Trump [crosstalk 00:27:12] attorney-
 Well, there’s no way they could … then they’re incompetent. They’re either dishonest or incompetent, okay [crosstalk 00:27:39].
 There’s only two answers, dishonesty or incompetence. There’s just no way. Look, there’s no way. And on the other thing I said too, there’s no way that these things could have been … you have all these different people that voted, but they don’t live in Georgia anymore. What was that number, Cleta? That was a pretty good number, too.
 And then they came back in and they voted.
 I thought that was a large number, though, it was in the 20s. And the point is-
 [crosstalk 00:28:43] Really, how may people do that? You mean they moved out, and then they said, “Ah, to hell with it, I’ll move back in.” It doesn’t sound like a very normal … you mean they moved out, and what, they missed it so much that they wanted to move back in? Yeah, it’s crazy.
 Well, I don’t know, all I know is that it is certified. And they moved out of Georgia and they voted. It didn’t say they moved back in, Cleta, did it?
 But Cleta, a lot of it you don’t need to be shared. I mean, to be honest, they should share it. They should share it because you want to get to an honest election. I won this election by hundreds of thousands of votes. There’s no way I lost Georgia. There’s no way. We won by hundreds of thousands of votes. I’m just going by small numbers, when you add them up, they’re many times the 11,000. But I won that state by hundreds of thousands of votes. Now do you think it’s possible that they shredded ballots in Fulton County? Because that’s what the rumor is. And also that Dominion took out machines. That Dominion is really moving fast to get rid of their machinery. Do you know anything about that? Because that’s illegal.
 But have they moved the inner parts of the machines and replaced them with other parts?
 Are you sure, Ryan?
 What about the ballots, the shredding of the ballots, have they been shredding ballots?
 Well, I don’t know about that [crosstalk 00:31:02]. It doesn’t pass the smell test though, because we hear they’re shredding thousands and thousands of ballots. And now what they’re saying, “Oh, we’re just cleaning up the office.” I don’t think that-
 Oh this isn’t social media. This is Trump media. It’s not social media. It’s really not, it’s not social media. I don’t care about social media. I couldn’t care less. Social media is Big Tech. Big Tech is on your side. I don’t even know why you have a side because you should want to have an accurate election. And you’re a Republican.
 No, no you don’t, no, no you don’t. You don’t have … not even close. You’re off by hundreds of thousands of votes. And just on the small numbers, you’re off on these numbers, and these numbers can’t be just … Well, why won’t … okay, so you sent us into Cobb County for a signature verification-
 You sent us into Cobb County for signature verification, right? You sent us into Cobb County, which we didn’t want to go into, and you said it would be open to the public, so we had our experts there. They weren’t allowed into the room. But we didn’t want Cobb County. We wanted Fulton County, and you wouldn’t give it to us. Now, why aren’t we doing signature, and why can’t it be open to the public, and why can’t we have professionals do it instead of rank amateurs who will never find anything and don’t want to find anything? You know they don’t want to find anything. Someday you’ll tell me the reason why, because I don’t understand your reasoning, but someday you’ll tell me the reason why. But why don’t you want to find?
 Why don’t you want to find … What?
 Okay, so why did you do Cobb County? We didn’t even request … We requested Fulton County, not Cobb County.
 Go ahead, please. Go ahead.
 No, but I told you, but we’re not saying that.
 Fulton County. Look, in my opinion, Stacey is as dishonest as they come. She has outplayed you at everything. She got you to sign a totally unconstitutional agreement, which is a disastrous agreement. You can’t check signatures. I can’t imagine you’re allowed to do harvesting, I guess, in that agreement. That agreement is a disaster for this country. But she got you somehow to sign that thing, and she has outsmarted you at every step. I hate to imagine what’s going to happen on Monday or Tuesday, but it’s very scary to people. When the ballots flow in out of nowhere, it’s very scary to people. That consent decree is a disaster. It’s a disaster. A very good lawyer who examined it said they’ve never seen anything like it.
 It’s not a settlement agreement, it’s a consent decree. It even says consent decree on it, doesn’t it? It uses the term consent decree. It doesn’t say settlement agree. It’s a consent decree. It’s a disaster.
 What’s written on top of it?
 But Ryan, it’s called a consent decree, is that right? On the paper. Is that right?
 Okay, whatever, it’s a disaster. It’s a disaster. Look, here’s the problem. We can go through signature verification and we’ll find hundreds of thousands of signatures, if you let us do it. And the only way you can do it, as you know, is to go to the past, but you didn’t do that in Cobb County. You just looked at one page compared to another. The only way you can do a signature verification is go from the one that signed it on November whatever recently, and compare it to two years ago, four years ago, six years ago or even one, and you’ll find that you have many different signatures. But in Fulton, where they dumped ballots, you will find that you have many that aren’t even signed, and you have many that are forgeries, okay? You know that. You know that. You have no doubt about that, and you will be at 11,779 within minutes, because Fulton County is totally corrupt and so is she totally corrupt.
 And they’re going around playing you and laughing at you behind your back, Brad. Whether you know it or not, they’re laughing at you, and you’ve taken a state that’s a Republican state, and you’ve made it almost impossible for a Republican to win because of cheating, because they cheated like nobody’s ever cheated before. And I don’t care how long it takes me. We’re going to have other states coming forward pretty good, but I won’t … This is never … We have some incredible talent said they’ve never seen anything. Now, the problem is they need more time for the big numbers, but they’re very substantial numbers. But I think you’re going to find that …
 By the way, a little information. I think you’re going to find that they are shredding ballots because they have to get rid of the ballots, because the ballots are unsigned. The ballots are corrupt, and they’re brand new and they don’t have a seal and there’s the whole thing with the ballots, but the ballots are corrupt, and you are going to find that they are, which is totally illegal. It’s more illegal for you than it is for them because, you know what they did and you’re not reporting it. That’s a criminal offense, and you can’t let that happen. That’s a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer. That’s a big risk. But they are shredding ballots, in my opinion, based on what I’ve heard, and they are removing machinery, and they’re moving it as fast as they can, both of which are criminal finds, and you can’t let it happen and you are letting it happen. I mean, I’m notifying you that you’re letting it happen.
 So look, all I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have because we won the state, and flipping the state is a great testament to our country because it’s a testament that they can admit to a mistake or whatever you want to call it, if it was a mistake. I don’t know. A lot of people think it wasn’t a mistake. It was much more criminal than that, but it’s a big problem in Georgia and it’s not a problem that’s going away. I mean, it’s not a problem that’s going away.
 Good, but if you find it you’ve got to say it, Ryan.
 Let me ask you. Ryan, if they’re destroying ballots-
 Go ahead.
 Well, you better check the ballots because they are shredding ballots, Ryan. I’m just telling you, Ryan. They’re shredding ballots. And you should look at that very carefully, because that’s so illegal. You may not even believe it because it’s so bad, but they’re shredding ballots because they think we’re going to eventually get there. Because we’ll eventually get into Fulton. In my opinion, it’s never too late. So a little double sound there. So, that’s the story fellas. Look, we need only 11,000 votes. We have are far more than that as it stands now. We’ll have more and more. Do you have provisional ballots at all, Brad? Provisional ballots?
 Sure, but I mean, are they counted or did you just hold them back because? In other words, how many provisional ballots do you have in the state?
 Because most of them are made out to the name, Trump, because these are people that were scammed when they came in, and we have thousands of people that have testified or that want to testify. When they came in, they were probably going to vote on November 3rd, and they were told, “I’m sorry, you’ve already been voted for. You’ve already voted.” The women, men started screaming, “No, I proudly voted til November 3rd.” They said, “I’m sorry, but you’ve already been voted for, and you have a ballot,” and these people are beside themselves, so they went out and they filled in a provisional ballot, putting the name Trump on it.
 And what about that batch of military ballots that came in. And even though I won the military by a lot, it was 100% Trump. I mean, 100% Biden. Do you know about that? A large group of ballots came in. I think it was to Fulton County, and they just happened to be 100% for Biden, even though Trump won the military by a lot, a tremendous amount. But these ballots were 100% for Biden. Do you know about that? A very substantial number came in, all for Biden. Does anybody know about it?
 Okay, Cleta. I’m not asking you Cleta, honestly. I’m asking Brad. Do you know about the military ballots that we have confirmed now? Do you know about the military ballots that came in that were 100% for Biden. Do you know about that?
 No, but this was-
 That’s okay. But I got like 78% of the military. These ballots were all for … They didn’t tell me overseas. Could be overseas too, but I get votes overseas too, Ryan, in all fairness. No, they came in. A large batch came in and it was, quote, 100% for Biden, and that is criminal. That’s criminal, okay? That’s another criminal. That’s another of the many criminal events. Many criminal events here. I don’t know. Look, Brad, I have to find 12,000 votes, and I have them times a lot, and therefore, I won the state. That’s before we go to the next step, which is in the process of right now. And I watched you this morning and you said, “Well, there was no criminality,” but all of this stuff is very dangerous stuff. When you talk about no criminality, I think it’s very dangerous for you to say that.
 I just don’t know why you don’t want to have the votes counted as they are. Like, even you, when you went and did that check, and I was surprised because, I didn’t [inaudible 00:43:30] the check, and we found a few thousand votes that were against me. I was actually surprised because the way that check was done, all you’re doing is re-certifying existing votes. You were given votes and you just counted them up, and you still found 3,000 that were bad. That was sort of surprising. That came down. Three or five. I don’t know, still a lot of votes. But you have to go back to check from past years with respect to signatures, and if you check with Fulton County, you’ll have hundreds of thousands because they dumped ballots into Fulton County and the other county next to it.
 So what are we going to do here, folks? I only need 11,000 votes. Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break. We have that in spades already, or we can keep it going, but that’s not fair to the voters of Georgia because they’re going to see what happened, and they’re going to see what happened. I mean, I’ll take on to anybody you want with regard to Ruby Freeman and her lovely daughter. A very lovely young lady, I’m sure. But Ruby Freeman, I will take Freeman. I will take on anybody you want. And the minimum, there were 18,000 ballots but they used them three times, so that’s a lot of votes. And they were all to Biden, by the way. That’s the other thing we didn’t say.
 The Ruby Freeman thing, the one thing I forgot to say, which was the most important, do you know that every single ballot she did went to Biden. You know that, right? Do you know that, by the way, Brad? Every single ballot that she did through the machines at early, early in the morning went to Biden. Did you know that, Ryan?
 Huh. What is accurate?
 No, about Ruby Freeman, about early in the morning, Ryan. When the whole gang took the stuff from under the table, right? Do you know who those ballots … Do who they were made out to? Do you know who they were voting for?
 Did you ever check?
 No, no, no. Did you ever check the ballots that were scanned by Ruby Freeman, a known political operative and balloteer. Did ever check who those votes were for?
 No, they were 100% for Biden. 100%. There wasn’t a Trump vote in the whole group. Why don’t you want to find this, Ryan? What’s wrong with you? I heard your lawyer is very difficult, actually, but I’m sure you’re a good lawyer. You have a nice last name. But I’m just curious, why do you keep fighting this thing? It just doesn’t make sense. We’re way over the 17,779, right? We’re way over that number, and just if you took just Ruby Freeman, we’re over that number by five or six times when you multiply that times three, and every single ballot went to Biden. And you didn’t know that, but now you know it.
 So tell me, Brad, what are we going to do? We won the election, and it’s not fair to take it away from us like this, and it’s going to be very costly in many ways, and I think you have to say that you’re going to reexamine it and you can reexamine it. But reexamine it with people that want to find answers, not people that don’t want to find answers. For instance, I’m hearing, Ryan, and he’s probably I’m sure a great lawyer and everything, but he’s making statements about those ballots that he doesn’t know. But he’s making them with such … He did make them with surety, but now I think he’s less sure, because the answer is they all went to Biden. That alone wins us the election by a lot.
 And that alone wins us the election by a lot. You know?
 Why do you say that though? I don’t know. I mean, sure, we can play this game with the courts. But why do you say that? First of all, they don’t even assign us a judge. They don’t even assign us a judge. But why wouldn’t you… Hey Brad, why wouldn’t you want to check out Ruby Freeman? And why wouldn’t you want to say, “Hey, if in fact President Trump is right about that, then he wins the state of Georgia”? Just that one incident alone, without going through hundreds of thousands of dropped ballots. You just say you stick by… I mean, I’ve been watching you for… You don’t care about anything. Your numbers are right. But your numbers aren’t right. They’re really wrong, and they’re really wrong, Brad. And I know this phone call is going nowhere other than ultimately… Look, ultimately, I win. Okay? Because-
 You guys are so wrong and you’ve created the population of Georgia so badly between you and your governor who was down at 21… He was down 21 points and like a schmuck, I endorsed him and he got elected. But I will tell you, he’s a disaster. I can’t imagine… The people are so angry in Georgia. I can’t imagine he’s ever getting elected again. I’ll tell you that much right now. But why wouldn’t you want to find the right answer, Brad, instead of keep saying that the numbers are right? Because those numbers are so wrong. [crosstalk 00:50:00].
 No, we do have a way, but I don’t want to get into it-
 Because we found a way in other states, Cleta. Excuse me.
 But we don’t need it because we’re only down 11,000 votes. So we don’t even need it.
 I personally think they’re corrupt as hell, but we don’t need that-
 Because all we have to do, Cleta, is find 11,000 plus votes. So we don’t need that. I’m not looking to shake up the whole world. We won Georgia easily. We won it by hundreds of thousands of votes. But if you go by basic simple numbers, we want it easily. Easily. We’re not giving Dominion a pass, on the record. I will say that.
 We don’t need Dominion because we have so many other votes that we don’t need to prove it anymore than we already have.
 And certified accountants looked at them.
 Well, let me ask you, Kurt. Kurt, you think that is an accurate number. That was based on the information given to you by the Secretary of State’s department, right?
 Well, you have to… Well, under law you’re not allowed to give faulty election results. Okay? You’re not allowed to do that. And that’s what you’ve done. This is a faulty election result. And honestly, this should go very fast. You should meet tomorrow because you have a big election coming up. Because of what you’ve done to the president… The people of Georgia know that this was a scam. Because of what you’ve done to the president, a lot of people aren’t going out to vote, and a lot of Republicans are going to vote negative because they hate what you did to the president. Okay? They hate it, and they’re going to vote. And you would be respected, really respected, if this thing could be straightened out before the election. You have a big election coming up on Tuesday. And therefore, I think that it really is important that you have meet tomorrow and work out on these numbers.
 Because I know, Brad, if you think we’re right, I think you’re going to say… And I’m not looking to blame anybody. I’m not blaming. I’m just saying that under new counts and under new views of the election results, we won the election. It’s very simple. We won the election. As the governor of major states and the surrounding states, there’s no way you lost Georgia. As the Georgia politicians say, there is no way you lost Georgia. Nobody, everyone knows I won it by hundreds of thousands of votes. But I’ll tell you it’s going to have a big impact on Tuesday if you guys don’t get this thing straightened out fast.
 But you’re allowed to have a phony election? You’re allowed to have a phony election, right?
 When are you going to do the signature counts on… When are you going to do signature verification on Fulton County? Which you said you were going to do and now all of a sudden you’re not doing it. When are you doing that?
 Well, I don’t want to know who it is. You guys can do it very confidentially. You can sign a confidentiality agreement. That’s okay. I don’t need to know names.
 But we got the information on this stuff that we’re talking about. We got all that information from the Secretary of State.
 Well, why don’t my lawyers show you where you got the information? It’ll show the Secretary of State. And you don’t even have to look at any names. We don’t want names. We don’t care. But we got that information from you. And Stacey Abrams is laughing about… She’s going around saying these guys are dumber than a rock. What she’s done to this party is unbelievable. I tell you. And I only ran against her once, and that was with a guy named Brian Kemp. And I beat her. If I didn’t run, Brian wouldn’t have had even a shot either in the general or the primary. He was dead. Dead as a doornail. He never thought he had a shot at either one of them. What a schmuck I was, but that’s the way it is. That’s the way it is.
 I would like you to… For the attorneys [inaudible 00:12:31], I’d like you to perhaps meet with Ryan ideally tomorrow, because I think we should come to a resolution of this before the election. Otherwise you’re going to have people just not voting. They don’t want to vote. They hate the state. They hate the governor, and they hate the Secretary of State. I will tell you that right now. The only people that like you are people that will never vote for you. You know that, Brad, right? They like you. They like you. They can’t believe what they found. They want more people like you.
 Look, can you get together tomorrow? Brad, we just want the truth. It’s simple. And everyone’s going to look very good if the truth comes out. It’s okay. It takes a little while, but let the truth come out. The real truth is I won by 400,000 votes at least. That’s the real truth, but we don’t need 400,000 votes. We need less than 2,000 votes. Are you guys able to meet tomorrow, Ryan?
 Okay. Thank you, Brad. Thank you, Ryan. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.
 Thank you very much. Bye. [crosstalk 01:02:01].
 Thank you very much. Appreciate it very much. I’m honored to welcome doctors, scientists, industry executives, and state and local leaders to our historic Operation Warp Speed Vaccine Summit. It’s been some journey for all of us. It’s been an incredible success. We’re grateful to be joined by Vice President Mike Pence who has done an absolutely incredible job on the coronavirus task force. Mike, thank you. Stand up, Mike. Great job.
 We’re here to discuss a monumental national achievement. From the instant the coronavirus invaded our shores, we raced into action to develop a safe and effective vaccine at breakneck speed. It would normally take five years, six years, seven years, or even more. In order to achieve this goal, we harnessed the full power of government, the genius of American scientists and the might of American industry to save millions and millions of lives all over the world. We’re just days away from authorization from the FDA and we’re pushing them hard, at which point we will immediately begin mass distribution.
 Before Operation Warp Speed, the typical timeframe for development, an approval as you know, could be infinity. And we were very, very happy that we were able to get things done at a level that nobody has ever seen before. The gold standard vaccine has been done in less than nine months. On behalf of the entire nation, I want to thank everyone here today who has been involved in this extraordinary American initiative. I also want to recognize members of my administration who have worked tirelessly in this effort. Alex Azar, please, Alex. Where’s Alex? Thank you, Alex. Great job. Moncef Slaoui, where are you, Moncef? Thank you very much. Great job. A man who’s now going to be very important, General Gus Perna, I have no doubt about it. Right? Logistic. Jared Kushner, who’s worked so hard. Where’s Jared? Jared, wherever you may be, thank you. Thank you, Jared.
 Dr. Deborah Birx. Deborah, thank you very much, Deborah. Admiral Brett Giroir. Where is Brett? Great job you’ve been doing, Brett. Surgeon General, Jerome Adams. Jerome, thank you very much. Terrific. Dr. Robert Redfield, Robert, thank you very much. Appreciate it. Administrator Seema Verma, Seema, thank you. Dr. Peter Marks, Peter, where’s Peter? Thank you. Paul Mango, Adam Bowler and Brad Smith. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you all very much. Incredible job. And many others also, many, many others.
 We’re also grateful to be joined by Governors Greg Abbott, where is Greg? Bill Lee, Bill. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Bill. Ron DeSantis, Ron, thank you, Ron. Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job, Ron. And John Bel Edwards, John Bel, thank you. Thank you, John Bel. Thank you very much. As well as Senator John Barrasso who’s a fantastic doctor also, by the way. I have to say. When I need info on that subject, I call up John. Thank you, John, very much. Senator Steve Daines, congratulations on a great win, great win. That was easier than you thought it turned out, right? It was a little easier than you thought. Great going. We’re proud of you. Congressman Greg Walden, Greg. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And Congressmen Brad Wenstrup. Thank you, Brad. Great job, and many, many others.
 My administration provided a total of $14 billion to accelerate vaccine development and to manufacture all of the top candidates in advance, long in advance. As a result of this unprecedented investment, we are exceedingly proud that both Pfizer and Moderna have announced that their vaccines are approximately 95% effective which is a number that nobody expected to be able to get to, far exceeding anything that really that anybody thought. We went out and we said, “What do you think a maximum would be?” And I think, doctors, we all came up to the conclusion that something like that would be really incredible. We have other candidates looking right now and we have some big ones that we’re going to be announcing very soon. We have some companies, great, great companies out there you all know about, Johnson and Johnson and others. And they’re all coming in and they’re coming in very quickly. We expect to have some news on that very shortly.
 And we have worked very well with the companies, but if for any reason we have any problems, we will be instituting the Defense Production Act and we will make sure that we don’t have any problems for very long. We’ve instituted it before. Two additional companies, AstraZeneca and Johnson and Johnson. As you know, the Johnson and Johnson is a one dose, one shot vaccine, so we’re going to see how that works. That would be very helpful if that all came out, and I think it probably will. Also, they’re showing tremendous, tremendous promise, all of them, tremendous problem.
 We’re very hopeful that the FDA will authorize the Pfizer vaccine within days. We’ve got to get it moving and Moderna vaccine almost immediately thereafter. Large numbers of tests and samples have been done so hopefully that’ll go very quickly. If authorized, tens of millions of vaccine doses will be available this month and we’ll get it distributed very quickly. We have that all set and hundreds of millions more will quickly follow. Every American who wants the vaccine will be able to get the vaccine. And we think by spring, we’re going to be in a position that nobody would have believed possible just a few months ago. Amazing, really amazing. They say it’s somewhat of a miracle. And I think that’s true.
 The plan we put forward prioritizes the elderly and patients with underlying conditions, as well as health care workers and first responders. The ultimate decision rests with the governors of the various states. And I hope the governors make wise decisions who will decide where the vaccines will go in their state and who will get them first. We urge the governors to put America’s seniors first, and also I think those who work with seniors, which obviously you going to have to do that. I think they have to go together, and doctors, nurses, first responders, et cetera. This will quickly and dramatically reduce deaths and hospitalizations. And within a short period of time, I think we want to get back to normal. It’s a very standard phrase. We want to just get back to normal, get back to where we were a little more than nine months ago. We’re doing incredibly. And in many respects, we’re still doing incredibly with our stock markets and everything else which are hitting all new highs.
 We’ve already finalized a partnership with Walgreens and CVS whose executives join us today. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much. We appreciate it very much. And they will deliver vaccines directly to nursing homes as soon as the states request that they do so. Later today, General Gus Perna will outline the detailed plan to rapidly distribute the vaccine to every state territory and tribe. States have designated over 50,000 sites that will receive the vaccine. We’ve worked very closely with the states. Actually, we’ve had very good relationships with the governors. I almost think all of the governors, at least in those conference calls that are somewhat secret, other than sometimes on occasion, Mike. The press will break in which is fine, too.
 It’s amazing how you leave those rooms and about 10 seconds later. There wasn’t even time for a leak. They were on the call, but that’s all right. So you assume that. You always assume that. But they’ll be going through pharmacies, hospitals, health care providers. Through our partnership with FedEx, UPS and McKesson, we’ll ship doses from warehouses directly to the designated sites. And we’re thrilled to be joined by representatives, those really great American companies. Those companies have worked with us and they’ve been incredible to work with. And I want to thank you all for being here, please. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 As I’ve stated all along and I guess as you saw pretty vividly, I heard about what they were going to show prior to my coming. You saw that very few people thought that this was possible. Of course there’ll be saying now we always told you it was so, but we have them saying a little bit different. But it has been incredible and it will end the pandemic. It will end the pandemic and we’re working with other nations. As you see actually by looking at your screen today, we’re working very closely with other nations also to get the vaccines out to other nations. And that’s very important. We work with the world. We’re working with the world. We have great companies and we’re working with the world.
 In just a few minutes, I’ll sign an executive order to ensure that the United States government prioritizes the getting out of the vaccine to American citizens before sending it to other nations. Now, if necessary, I told you we’ll invoke the Defense Production Act, but we don’t think it will be necessary. If it is, it’s a very powerful act as you know, because we’ve used it very, very successfully. While we begin to swiftly deploy the vaccine, we’ll continue to expand the availability of groundbreaking therapies. Since April advances in treatments have already helped reduce the mortality rate by 85%. Think of that, 85%. It’s an incredible number.
 I’ve delivered on my solemn promise to make the antibody treatments. They’re brilliant. They’re highly successful, available to every American, and we’re doing that free of cost, totally free of cost. So we’re making them available and they’re available now. And if somebody gets sick, it works where they go and they get treatment if that’s what the doctors are prescribing, and it’s been incredible, the success. And when you hear 85%, that’s some number. To me, that’s a number that goes along with anything else, including the vaccines when you think about it. As well as we’ve done with the vaccines, when you hear 85%, people find that one hard to believe. But you look at the stats and you see what’s happening. And you look at other countries, they’re having tremendous difficulties in Europe, tremendous, relatively beyond what we’re having. They’re having them all over the world. But this will vanquish the problem, this horrible scourge, as I call it the China virus because that’s where it came from.
 And the virus has really been looked at and studied all over the world. And our scientists, our industrial and economic mobilization has been like nobody else in the world could have done. And it’s very important that we share that with others and other nations. I’ve worked and invoked the Defense Production Act over 100 times to manufacture essential supplies in the United States. Despite the grim projections from the media eight months ago, where they said this was impossible, they actually said, and you saw that a little bit, but I could give you two hours worth of it, but they said it will never happen. You could never do it. It was a pipe dream. But we did something that nobody thought was possible. And we also did it where no American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator.
 When this first came out, we weren’t equipped for that. Nobody was equipped for that. And we’re now making ventilators and we have all we need in this country. But we’re sending them to countries all over the world. We’re making thousands and thousands of ventilators a month. The United States has also created the largest, most advanced and most innovative testing program in the world by far. We’ve conducted over 200 million tests. Think of that, 200 million tests, more than all of the European Union combined. It’s not even close. Just 10 months ago, none of these innovations even existed. The tremendous progress that we’ve made is a testament to what our nation is capable of. When America is faced with a challenge, we come through and we always come through to overcome every hardship and surmount every obstacle. And I think you’ll be seeing that over the next few months. The numbers should skyrocket downward.
 We are the most exceptional nation in the history of the world. Today we’re on the verge of another American medical miracle. And that’s what people are saying. People that aren’t necessarily big fans of Donald Trump are saying whether you like him or not, this is one of the greatest miracles in the history of modern day medicine or any other medicine, any other age of medicine. American companies were the first to produce a verifiably safe and effective vaccine together. We will defeat the virus, and we will soon end the pandemic, and we will save millions and millions of lives both in our country and all over the world, and we’ve already started.
 Thank you again to every person here today and for the incredible achievements that you’ve done. You’re going to be very proud of this day and you’re going to be very proud of this period of time because nobody thought this was possible. Nobody thought it was even remotely possible to do what we’ve done in a period of less than nine months, something just not even thinkable. And we took a lot of heat when we said this is our goal and we frankly weren’t even quite using the numbers that we use. We far exceeded what we thought. If we would have said sometime next year, I think most people would have said that would be great. That would be a miracle. But we did it long before sometime next year.
 So now I want to ask several leaders who have been crucial in this effort to join me on stage as I signed the executive order to ensure that American citizens have first priority to receive American vaccines, and then we’re going to be working with other countries all over the world. And I think we’ll be able to start doing that almost immediately also because we have millions of doses coming in. So thank you very much. Thank you. It’s a great honor. Let’s see here. I guess we have to do our Vice President, right? Thank you very much. Spread that around. Spread the wealth.
 Thank you very much. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
 Any questions please? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Any questions, please? Question? Yes, please.
 Yeah. Well, CDC puts out their guidelines and they’re very important guidelines. But I think this. I think that the vaccine was our goal. That was number one because it was the way it ends. Plus you do have an immunity. You develop immunity over a period of time. And I hear we’re close to 15%. I’m hearing that. And that is terrific. That’s a very powerful vaccine in itself. And just tremendous progress has been made.
 One of the reasons we do show so many, and I say this, and I’ve been saying it for a long time, so many cases is because of the fact that we have 200 million tests, and you take, I think India is actually in second place with just a fraction of that number. So we’re many times greater than the second country, and India has 1.4 billion people where our testing program has been incredible. And we actually are also coming out with new tests very shortly that will make the process even easier. And you won’t need doctors necessarily to do the test. So we have some incredible tests coming out in a very short period of time. Yeah, please.
 Thank you.
 Thank you. A very popular First Lady, I have to admit. Thank you very much and thank you, Melania. And I want to say, hello, Georgia. We did a great job. You know we won Georgia, just so you understand. And we won Florida and we won a lot of places.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Well, thank you very much. Thank you. No, we won a lot of places. We won Florida. We won Ohio. Big, big. We won them big. Remember we were going to lose Florida they said. We were five down in Florida. We won by a lot. We were way down in Ohio and we won by a lot. I think they say that if you win Florida and if you win Ohio in history, you’ve never lost an election. This has got to be a first time. But the truth is they were right, we’ve never lost that election. We’re winning this election. And I will say, we’re fighting very hard for this state. When you look at all of the corruption and all of the problems having to do with this election, all I can do is campaign and then I wait for the numbers. But when the numbers come out of ceilings and come out of leather bags, you start to say, “What’s going on?” But I want to just tell you that I love this state. I love the people in this state and I’m thrilled to be back in magnificent Georgia with thousands of proud, hardworking American patriots.
 Let me begin by wishing you all a very Merry Christmas. Remember the word. Remember. We started five years ago, and I said you’re going to be saying Christmas again. And we say it proudly again, although there’ll be trying to take that word again out of the vocabulary. We’re not going to let them do that. I also want to express our profound condolences to the family of Harrison Deal, a young and brilliant campaign staffer for Senator Loeffler, who tragically died in a terrible car accident yesterday. You know about it. He was an incredible magnificent young man. And I just want to say our prayers are with his friends and loved ones and we will keep his memory in our hearts. And he’s looking down right now and he’s very proud of Kelly and David. He’s very proud of all of us. So I just want to express my best wishes to the family and everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Kelly. And let me also express our warmest best wishes and love to all of those people and families suffering from the COVID pandemic. Vaccines are on their way at a level that nobody ever thought possible. It would have taken another administration five years. It took us seven months and they’re starting next week and we’re going to start vaccinating. And a lot of people already are vaccinated. It’s called you have … You caught it and you’re immune. I hope it’s true. They say that before I had it, they said if you catch it, you’re immune for life. Once I got it, they said, if you catch it, you’re immune for four months. Right.
 But they’re on their way, the vaccines and they’re great vaccines and safe, and brilliant actually to think of it, what we’ve done in such a short period of time. Nobody thought. They call it, even some of the enemies call it a medical miracle what we’ve done. And we also have great therapeutics and they’re already here and I can testify to that fact. I’ll tell you what, some incredible work has been done over the last seven months. And we should always get credit for that. Don’t let anyone ever take it away from us.
 We’re gathered here tonight to ensure … A very important word, ensure because these are two great, great people that I know so well and respected by everybody in Washington and beyond, that David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler win the most important congressional runoff, probably in American history. I really believe that. I think it’s in American … There’s never been a time like this, where you have two at one time, at least you have two beauties. And you know what, you also have two beauties running against them, but beauty in a different way, there are two beauties.
 But there’s never been a case where a state has had this prominence on Senate races because they’re never together. And this is something that’s very important and you have to get out and you have to vote. You have to make sure you have every vote counted. Every one has to count. You got to make sure they don’t throw away any ballots. You got to make sure that when they collect the ballots and they start bragging about how many ballots they already have, you got to make sure your secretary of state knows what the hell he’s doing. And you got to make sure your governor gets a lot tougher than he’s been. He’s got to get a lot tougher. Because at stake in this election is control of the US Senate and that really means control of this country. The voters of Georgia will determine which party runs every committee, writes every piece of legislation, controls every single taxpayer dollar.
 Very simply, you will decide whether your children will grow up in a socialist country or whether they will grow up in a free country. And I will tell you this, socialist is just the beginning for these people. These people want to go further than socialism. They want to go into a communistic form of government. I have no doubt about it. Somehow that doesn’t suit Georgia too well. That doesn’t work too well I think, Kelly, in Georgia, does it?
 David and Kelly are running against radical Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock. Ossoff and Warnock are the two most extreme, far-left liberal Senate candidates in the history of our country, and you got them both at one time. How did that happen? I think you both got lucky, but we’ll see, right? We’ll see. You must go vote and vote early starting December 14th. You have to do it. They cheated and they rigged our presidential election, but we will still win it. We will still win it. We’ll still win it. And they’re going to try and rig this election too.
 No, we continue to fight. We’ve had some great moments. We just need somebody with courage to do what they have to do because everyone knows it’s wrong. We need somebody with courage, somebody that makes decisions, then we’ll be going up to the Supreme Court very shortly. And we really, if we have-
 If we have courage and wisdom, I think, you know what the answer’s going to be because you can’t let people get away with what they got away with. Think of it, with over 74 million votes, over, think of that, more than … I got more votes than any sitting president in history. 11 million more votes than we got in 2016. And we thought that if we could get 68 million, 67 million that would be the end. All of our great, brilliant geniuses said you’d win if you get 67 or 68. It’s over. We got 74 million-plus and they’re trying to convince us that we lost. We didn’t lose. They found a lot of ballots to be nice about it. And they got rid of some too. The 74, let me tell you, the 74 could have been even higher.
 As the great pollster, John McLaughlin, who was really a great pollster, one of the most highly respected, he said, “There’s no way this could have happened other than the obvious cheating or a rigged election. There’s no way it could have happened.” It’s interesting, I wrote this out and I had just a few of the facts, which I think … Because I want to get onto the presidentials. I want to stay on presidential, but I got to get to these two because they’re incredible. But listen to this. These are the facts. And each fact is irrefutable and it means win. President Trump received, done by one of the most brilliant political people, President Trump received more votes than any previous incumbent president in history. And we lost. And we lost. So, we received more votes than anybody in history, any incumbent in history, and we lost, supposedly. We didn’t lose. You’re going to see that. No incumbent who received 75% of the total primary vote lost reelection in the history of our country. President Trump received 94, not 74. 94, which is one of the highest in history.
 In fact, President Trump is the only one of five incumbents since 1912 to receive more than 90% of the primary vote. And again, anybody received over 75%, they won. We got 94%. President Trump set a record for the most primary votes ever received by an incumbent, ever. And nobody that’s received all of the primary votes, nobody’s received at a much lesser level than what we, they always won. But we didn’t according to what they say. It’s rigged. It’s a fixed deal. Nationally, initial numbers show that 26% of President Trump’s voting share came from nonwhite voters. The highest percentage for a GOP presidential candidate since 1960. That’s a long time ago. President Trump won … Think of this one. President Trump won 18 of 19 bellwether counties. You know what a bellwether county is, it’s a big deal. So I won 18 of 19, a record, never happened. That between 1980 and 2016 voted for the eventual president in every single election, and before that, it was almost every election. And we won a record 18 of 19. Never lost. Nobody’s ever lost with anything like that.
 Biden did not demonstrate coattails for the downballot races, had no coattails. I’m shocked to hear that. In fact, he got 80 million votes. But what he made a Thanksgiving day speech on the internet, they say he had less than a thousand people. How do you have 80 million votes and you have a thousand people? Now how do you have 80 million votes and you have less than a thousand people?
 With Republicans maintaining control … So here’s what happened. So Biden didn’t demonstrate coattails downballot races, but with Republicans maintaining control, first time this has ever happened, control of the Senate, winning all 27 toss-up races in the House. Kevin McCarthy, great job. Mitch, great job. Winning all 27 toss-up races. And now, think of it. We didn’t lose a seat in the House. Think of this. The first time that anybody, I think in history, we didn’t lose one seat. Normally, you lose two, three, five, and you replay. We lost nobody sitting in Congress. I worked hard in the House, with Kevin McCarthy, not losing a single legislative chamber and making big gains at the state level and holding onto the Senate. I mean, look at what’s happened. We better hold onto the Senate, you two. And there’s never been numbers like that where a president even came close to losing, but they say we lost. The only way is they stuffed the ballot boxes.
 President Trump won. President Trump won as we said both in Florida and then Ohio. And by the way, won by a lot. Remember the fake polls where they said he’s down by four in Florida, and I won by a lot. He’s down by two in Ohio, and we won. I think we got eight or nine or something, up. But nobody’s ever done that. Those two very powerful, big, important states. And the beauty is that we also won Georgia, and that was good. We won South Carolina and we won Iowa. Remember, we’re not going to win an Iowa they said. We’re not going to win. I think the farmers like Trump a lot, right? Well, we want an Iowa by a lot. We won in Iowa by close to record numbers. I think I have the record. And we won all over the place.
 And many of these swing states, it’s a very interesting statistic. President Obama beat Biden all over the country, except in some of the swing states where Biden beat him badly. How does that work? And they say it’s statistically impossible. He beat crooked Hillary. Think of this. He beat crooked Hillary in the swing states, but she beat him everywhere else. Let me tell you, this election was rigged and we can’t let it happen to two of the greatest, most respected people in Washington. We can’t let it happen again. Can’t let it happen.
 Can’t let it happen. Can’t let it happen.
 Your governor could stop it very easily if he knew what the hell he was doing. He could stop it very easily. Hundreds of thousands of illegal votes were cast in each state. Far from … I mean, if you look at this, hundreds of thousands more than we needed were cast in every state we’re talking about, not only here, but Michigan, Pennsylvania. How about Pennsylvania where they throw the poll Watchers out? They threw them out. They literally threw them out. And they did it here too, by the way. But we caught them cold and have numerous cases pending. And so far we haven’t been able to find the people with the courage to do the right thing. And that is true in Georgia, certainly. But we’re going to hit those people and they’re going to go down in history as great people. They’re going to go down because everyone knows what took place.
 But we’re going to talk about the presidential election a little bit later because we have a big senatorial race going on in Georgia and we are watching Democrats very, very closely. And remember this, we had this massive race all over the country, so they could cheat in Georgia and people aren’t really watching it like they should. And again, all I can do is say I’m running, win, and then do a good job as president. That’s all. I don’t run the elections. I don’t run to see if people are walking in with suitcases and putting them under a table with a black robe around it. I don’t do that. That’s up to your government here. And for whatever reason, your secretary of state and your governor are afraid of Stacey Abrams. They’re afraid of her.
 So we know the Democrats are planning to cheat and we can’t let them do it again. And we’re going to pull ours out one way or the other. But we have to be vigilant because I don’t want these two to work like that I … I thought we were going to easily win. And then maybe for the first time in a long time, I’d go take a nice little vacation for about two days and then we’d go back. And instead, I probably worked harder in the last three weeks than I’ve ever worked in my life doing this.
 And I’ve become friendly with legislators that I didn’t know four weeks ago and actually, they’re great people. In fact, in my pocket right here, we have a couple of them right here. Where’s Burt Jones. Where’s Burt Jones? Burt. Burt, boy, you’re a young guy. I thought you were young, but not that young. Burt Jones, I want to thank you, Burt, for being here. You’re friendly with a man next to you, right? He’s a man of courage. Thank you very much, Burt. I appreciate everything you’re doing and so does this big crowd. And this is a big … This is a lot of people. Also, Brandon Beach, Senator Brandon Beach. Brandon, thank you for everything. We appreciate it. William Liggins. William. Where’s William? Why are you so far away, William, from them? Oh, I like that group better actually. I agree. And Greg Dolezal, where’s Greg? Greg, thank you very much, Greg. We appreciate it. Really do. We appreciate it. Great people.
 And we said, have this brought back into your legislature, governor, have it brought back. Let these people make it. Keep it open, keep it transparent, and let us have a signature verification. What’s wrong with that? They keep counting the same votes. I said, “Don’t count votes, look at the signature. You’re going to find the signatures aren’t what they were two years ago, four years ago, six years ago.” But are two great Senate opponents, and these are the two people that fight and they’re going to fight like … I don’t know if you know this, but one of the people that you’re fighting, I went against him, Ossoff, four years ago. He was against a very fine woman, Karen, who was a great woman, and he was leading by quite a bit and we ended up beating him. He didn’t even live in the district. He was running for Congress. He didn’t even live in the district. So we’re going to have the same thing.
 But Ossoff and Warnock will be total pawns of Chuck Schumer, Crying Chuck. I only see him cry when the cameras are on. But he said, he did say this, maybe I’m hurting you when I say, he did say this, “If we get in we’re going to absolutely make Donald Trump’s life miserable.” Can you believe that? That’s Chuck Schumer. He made the statement. “We’re going to investigate him.” Oh, those investigations, we’ll go on and on. Well, they’ve been investigating me since the day we came down on the escalator, which what turned out to be our great First Lady, we came down to the escalator, right? Okay. And a spider in our campaign and lots of other things. But Nancy Pelosi, AOC, Bernie Sanders, and the lunatic radical left, that’s what you’re going to have.
 As Chuck Schumer said rather infamously, “First we take Georgia, then we take America.” But they don’t mean to take America in a good sense. They mean bring it over to things that the people of Georgia don’t want. You’re not going to like it when they want to take over your farm. “Gee, we own this farm too. We were here also. We own this farm.” Here’s exactly how they will change America forever. The radical Democrats, if they get power, they will immediately abolish the Senate filibuster, allowing them to pass any bill they want and giving them free rein to ram through the most extreme left-wing agenda ever conceived while at the same time, destroying our military through a lack of funding.
 And by the way, tell our senators end Section 230. End Section 230. Put it in. We put it in. I want it in the defense bill. Put it in because it’s a national security problem. It’s a big national security. So hopefully, Mitch and the senators will put it in. But it’s the one chance we have to bring big tech, who are vicious and violent and untruthful, to bring big tech … It’s the only thing they fear is that we’re going to end Section 230. So hopefully, we will do it. It happens to be a politically very popular thing to do, by the way.
 If these people get control, their draconian, military cuts will devastate Fort Benning, Fort Gordon, and the military families all across Georgia. We would also like to save the names of the forts if you don’t mind everybody. They have the right. They put in the Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren clause, where they have the right to take all the names of our past warriors heroes in some cases, many cases, some turned out to be heroes in disguise, perhaps, but they want to take the names off and they have the right to desecrate, to take down, to destroy, to demolish places in our national parks that we don’t want demolished. So we have to be very careful of that. We can’t let that happen. They want to put it in our military bill. Of all people, Elizabeth Warren puts that clause in the military bill.
 They will impose total open borders so that people can pour into our country and they will give them free healthcare, free welfare, and the right to vote in your elections. You won’t ever win another election as a Republic. They even want to take down the wall. The wall, I won on the wall too. We won on a lot of things. “Take down the wall,” I heard him say it the other day. “We will take down the wall.” We have the strongest border we’ve ever had now. We’re almost finished with the wall. Strongest border, right, Sonny? And we built it despite … It’s incredible, the effect it’s having. We built it despite, everybody said no chance. I mean, we had a whole very powerful Democrat party oppose me. And yesterday, I don’t know if you saw it, the court-
 Oppose me. And yesterday, I don’t know if you saw it, the court just ruled that the money I took was taken legally. So at least we have a legal wall. The appeals court. So we took it and we built the wall and we’ll be finished with it very soon, but it’s had a tremendous impact on illegal immigrants coming into the country. And by the way, we want people to come into our country, you see that by the vote I got, but we want people to come in legally and through merit. Through merit, where they can help us. The radical Democrats will implement nationwide catch and release. You know that is? You catch a killer, you catch a rapist and you say, “Oh, thank you very much. Please give us your name. Oh, come back in three years. We’re going to put you on trial. Oh, Good.” You never see them by the way. Remember I had that debate with Joe Biden? He said, “No, they come back.” Yeah, they don’t come back. They don’t come back. No. They don’t come back. Like, never. Maybe 1%, but I doubt it. That’s the end of them. You let them loose in our country. I got rid of it. You think that was easy?
 And install sanctuary cities all across the country, that’s what they want, freeing criminal aliens and MS-13 gang members, the most vicious people. They don’t like guns because it’s not painful enough. They like using knives. It’s true. They don’t like guns, they’d rather cut somebody up. To wreak havoc and terror upon innocent families. We’ve moved thousands and thousands of MS-13s the hell out of our country. We moved them back to where they came from. And some, we put in prison because they’re too dangerous to move back because they’ll try and figure away. They’re not stupid. They’re vicious, but they’re not stupid, sort of like the Democrats if you think about.
 They’ll confiscate privately owned firearms and share… What they will do, they will share everything with themselves, only dangerous equipment. And they will totally cut up a thing called your second amendment rights. They’ll Make Washington DC a State and many other places guaranteeing two, four, or six additional left wing senators. They want to make numerous places States, this way you have a lot more… Louie, you’re going to have a lot more company in Congress. You’ll have lots of… You’ll have another 30, 40 congressional people from places you’ve never even heard of. You’ve never even heard of. Louie Gohmert. The great Louie Gohmert.
 And there’ll be voting against Georgia every time, completely canceling out your voice in Washington forever like David Perdue. I’ll never forget it. You got hit by a piece of a hurricane. Remember that? The farmers got hit so hard. And I went with Sonny and with David or some other great people from Georgia. And I said, “Is there a way we can pay these people?” They never asked for anything, and their orchards were wiped out. One of the men said, “This was going to be the best crop I ever had. I was a week and a half away from finally, after 10, 12 years making some money.” And a week and a half early, he gets hit by the remnants of that big hurricane from Florida. Great state, great place. But you got hit. And David, we took 100% care of those people, right? We took 100% care, yeah, with the help of Sonny Purdue, Secretary of Agriculture. And I felt so good.
 But I met them. There were 33 of them standing and they were all in the line. “What do you do?” “I have this?” “What?” It was a tragic… And nobody wanted anything. They didn’t even want it. They said, “If we could borrow it, if we could…” They didn’t want it. These are incredible people. They don’t want anything. They just want a level playing field, but we took care of them. They’d never forgot it either. It’s very interesting. I still hear from some of those people.
 The extreme left will pack the Supreme Court with 24 radical Justices. That’s the last number I heard. I used to hear it was 16, now it’s up to 24. Pretty soon, you’ll have another Congress. Twenty-four radical justice is instead of nine justices that we have right now. And they want them to revolve up and down the court system so that Supreme Court Justices can spend time in other locations, down the totem pole. They want to hurt the Supreme Court and they want to hurt it very badly. And if these two don’t get in, or if I don’t get in and these don’t, we got to get… The best would be all three. Nothing will happen. All three.
 But they want to destroy the sanctity of the Supreme Court, the importance of the Supreme Court, the majesty of the Supreme Court. They’ll terminate religious liberty, cancel free speech, and force you to fund extreme late-term abortion. And there will be nothing to stop them. If they don’t get in, there’s going to be nothing to stop them. You have no idea how bad it will be. There will be nothing. I used to argue with certain people about the filibuster. I said, look, I don’t like it either, but I do it because I know they are going to do it. Everybody said, “Oh, they’ll never do it.” They’re doing it. They’ve already announced they’re going to do it. That means they can do anything they want.
 And the Republicans, they play a different game. I don’t know, maybe they love the country more. But they said, “No, no, they’ll never do it.” And I said, “Well Schumer, he’ll do it the first day he gets in, he’ll do it.” And that’s exactly what’s happening and he’ll do it. And he will do that to the Supreme Court, there’s no question. But they look forward to it because you know why? We put on three… Think of this, three great Justices and we’ll be over 300 federal judges in the United States, which will be a record. Three hundred, 300. And they don’t want to wait, they want to do it very quickly. “Let’s just vote and we’ll take it.” This takes years and years and years to slowly change a court and perhaps I got a little bit lucky to get three. A lot of presidents have had none. They’ve never had… They stay on for a long time, they’re young when they go on and they’re old when they come off.
 But the fact is a lot of presidents, good presidents, great presidents… They say you can’t be a great president unless you’ve put in Supreme Court Justice. They say it’s the single most important thing a president can do. And I’m not sure that’s right, I think military defense, military offense, frankly, is the most important thing. But it’s certainly one of the most important things you can do. And the fact that I have more than… I will have by the end, more than 300… First term, think of it. And if we do a second term, which I hope we do, we could have close to 540.
 But the fact that I had three Supreme Court Justices in the first term is not making them feel too good. They will unilaterally surrender to China. They’re already doing it. They’re already doing it. And Hunter made a lot of money in China. What’s he going to do? Sending our factories and our jobs overseas. They will raise your taxes. We lowered your taxes. We gave you the greatest tax decrease, tax cut, in the history of our country and they want to get rid of that and raise your taxes, and raise your regulations. We cut more regulations than any president in the history of our country. That’s one of the reasons our business came back.
 With the pandemic, as bad as it is, it’s horrible. Should have never happened. China allowed this to happen. Should have never happened. But we went down less. A lot of people don’t like to talk… Our economy. We went down less and we went up more than any other country in the world. We went down less because we had a good foundation. And yesterday again… So now I thought it was 48, it’s actually 128 times… Can you believe it? We set a new stock market record, but this one was great because the Dow Jones industrial average over… Think of this. Over 30,000 for the first time ever over the last couple of weeks. And yesterday it was 30,200. Can you believe this? And this is during hopefully what will be… We’re rounding the turn, we’re rounding the corner of the pandemic. But this is during a pandemic. We broke 30,000. A number that was unthinkable when I first came.
 When I first came in at around 16,000, the concept of hitting a 30,000 Dow was not even possible. And we not only hit we… Can you imagine if we didn’t get hit by this is freak? This total freak that came into our country, could you imagine if we didn’t get hit? And I of this before, David, in a way we did this sort of twice. We took it from the time I came in to the time we got hit and nobody’s blaming us for… Every country, 188 got hit. Some were totally devastated. I don’t know if they ever recover. But if you think about it, we had two. We did it the first time, we went up from where I took it over. Way up, then it went down. Then we had a second. So we really had two.
 And now we’re going to get money because we want the money. First of all, these States and cities should open up. They should open up. And we’re working hard against the Democrats, but we’re working hard to get some money out to the people because they need it. It’s not their fault that they got hit with something from China. And you notice the way the Democrats like to say it came from Italy? No, it came from China. And that’s okay to say it. They like to say it came from Europe. “No, actually, well specifically came from Italy.” Italy saying, “What did we do?”
 They’ll wage war on American energy. Absolutely decimating Georgia’s middle-class. Your bills will go up. Not a huge energy producer, but Texas…. Remember they said, “Trump will lose Texas by a lot.” I said, “Wait a minute. I’m in favor of energy. I’m the one that built… We have the greatest energy we’ve ever had. And it all happened this period of time. So you’re telling me, you’re telling me that I’m going to lose Texas to a guy that’s against fracking, against energy, against religion, and against guns.” You tell me that, I end up winning Texas by so much. Somebody said, “We don’t even know how much.” And we knew that before, but it’s fake news.
 They said Wisconsin. A poll came out. Washington Post, ABC, just before the election, I’m going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points. I said, “No, I’m going to win Wisconsin.” Well, actually I won Wisconsin. They’re trying to say he’s a little down. But I actually won. But that’s called suppression. That’s called a suppression poll. That’s a poll that’s so devastating, when I asked one of the pollsters, I said, “Why did they go so far? Why don’t they just say four or five?” “Because in four years they’re going to lose all respect. They don’t care. They’ll do anything to win. They’ll do anything to beat you. They don’t care.” These people are sick. Seventeen points. And we actually won.
 Remember so many of the States? I won every one of them. Every one of these States. And by the way, the swing States that we’re all fighting over now, I won them all by a lot. I won them all by a lot. And I have to say, if I lost I’d be a very gracious loser. If I lost, I would say I lost and I’d go to Florida, and I’d take it easy, and I’d go around and I’d say, “I did a good job.” But you can’t ever accept when they steal and rig and rob. You can’t accept it.
 Well, the Democrats did try to steal the presidency. They’re trying like hell. Do you ever notice the fake news? “Today he’s appointing his this, his that.” Sonny, his Secretary of Agriculture. Sonny. I liked Sonny. We want Sonny. He was a great governor here for eight years. Right? You would have solved this problem in about two hours, Sonny. He would have said, “Let the legislature open. Let the vote… Let us be transparent on signatures.” I think that’s okay.
 But we’re working hard to ensure that it doesn’t happen. And now they’re trying to steal these two important Senate seats from Georgia. These seats are the last line of defense to save America and protect all that we have accomplished. And we’ve accomplished things that no other president has accomplished, no other administration. And I did it with these two people. I didn’t know Kelly. When Kelly came in, I didn’t really know what to think. There is nobody that fought harder for me. And I have to tell you this… Do you mind if me tell you here publicly, is that okay? There is nobody… David understands this too. She fought. What a trooper. She was so tough and smart. She even went against Mitt Romney. She didn’t like Mitt Romney too much. I won’t say what she said, but it was tough. But she is… We call him Kryptonite. Anything he touches, they lose. But you were so great. And I’ll not forget it. And David’s been my friend for a long time, for a long, long time. And there’s nobody in Washington that’s more respected than David Perdue. There’s nobody. There’s nobody. So we have to keep them.
 If the other side manages to steal both elections, we will have total, one party, socialist control and everything you care about will be gone. Your whole philosophy is going to be gone. Joe Biden, Kamala… Kamala [inaudible 00:14:13]. Crying Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, they want to take away your guns. I never got it. I never got it. That’s one of the reasons I knew. How can you win? No oil, no guns. No God. Oh, they won. I don’t think so. Okay. I don’t think. We knew that a long time ago. They want to take away your jobs, take away your borders, take away your freedom, take away your religion. And they even want to take away your beautiful Christmas that we just got back.
 I have to be very careful. When I of imitate that, right? You remember I was saying suburban women. I say, “Suburban women, love me. Please love me. I’ve been so good to you. I’ve been so good to you.” I got rid of the worst regulation of the history of suburbia. I got rid of that regulation. So now you can actually have a house without a building going up next to it that you’re not going to be happy about, without crime increasing by tenfold and this and that. So I said, “But suburban women, please, please love me.” And CNN put me on. “Donald Trump. Donald Trump is begging. He’s begging and crying for the vote of suburban women, [inaudible 00:15:31]”
 These people are sick. So you have to be very careful when you’re sarcastic. Sarcasm doesn’t work. Sarcasm doesn’t work with… Wow, that is a big group of people back there. Look at that. The fake news. Whoa. That’s a big group. That is a lot of fake news. Well, now we call it the fake news and suppression news. I use the word suppression because now they got a new thing going. This happened since Hunter, because we were killing them on Hunter, stealing money from every country. He was a human vacuum cleaner and it was hurting them badly. So all of a sudden big tech, together with their partner the Democrats, and their partner the fake news media, they decide under no circumstances will we ever talk about it again. So you have 95% of the media. You could have him be Jesse James and walk into the bank with a gun, hold them up, give me all your money, and they won’t talk about it. And it’s hard to have a scandal if they don’t talk about it.
 Other than the New York Post and people like Sean Hannity and people like Laura, and Tucker is doing good. I like Tucker lately. And our friends in the morning. And I tell you, we have some great new people. OAN. NewsMax. And Judge Jeanine, she’s on right? She’s on tonight. And Jesse Waters is great. And Pete Hexa. And I’m in trouble because I don’t mention everybody, but we have great people. We have a great voice, but the fact is most of the press was suppressed, so that no matter what they wouldn’t talk and it was incredible. And I have to give a lot of credit to Col Alan in the New York Post for what they did because they went out and they fought him and they fought them hard. Oldest paper in America, fourth or fifth biggest, and they should be very proud of themselves.
 But we’re doing the same thing. These two incredible people are doing the same thing. We fight. If you don’t get out and vote, they are going to win. Now, a lot of people, friends of mine say, “Let’s not vote. We’re not going to vote because we’re angry about the presidential…” And they’re friends of mine. There are people that are great people. They’re real friends. And more than just two, there are numerous people. And it’s almost like a protest. But if you do that, the radical left wins. Okay? It was sort of an instinct of mind. You’re angry because so many votes were stolen. It was taken away. And you say, “Well, we’re not going to do it.” We can’t do that. We have to actually do just the opposite. We can’t do that. We can’t do that. We have to do just the opposite.
 If you don’t vote, the socialists and the communists win. They win. Georgia Patriots must show up and vote for these two incredible people. And I’m telling you, they’re two of the finest people you’ll ever meet. We can fight for the presidency and fight to elect our two great senators and we can do it at the same time. We’ll do it at the same time, it’s all right. The election is about David Purdue, one of the greats. Kelly Leffler, a person who is just unbelievable. How she picked it up. There’s natural talent. As an athlete, I’d always say, “Would you rather practice or have natural talent?” I said, “The best is both right?” But she’s got a great natural talent, a great natural talent. Just very [inaudible 00:47:12]. But they believe, both of them, in America, and they believe in our values and all that we stand for. And they understand this state. They love your state. If they didn’t, I wouldn’t be here because I love you stay too, by the way.
 This election is about the radical left movement that hates America and wants to erase our history and wipe away everything that we hold dear. They want to rip down our statues. I signed a bill. I took an old bill because we could never get it today in the house headed by crazy Nancy. I took an old bill that said, “Ten years in prison.” They used the word prison, not jail. “Ten years in prison if you take down a statue.” I haven’t seen it happen lately. Do you notice? Everyone said you can’t use that. I’ll never forget. I heard they were going to… They did destruction around… And all in radical left, Democrat-run cities, by the way, and we’re not supposed to go in. If I had it to do again, I think I would have said the military in, if you want to know the truth. But we’re not supposed to. They’re supposed to be able to handle their own affairs. I don’t know.
 But all over, they said, “Sir, you can’t do this bill. This is too tough.” I said, “Really, they’re going to tear down a statue of Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson. Desecrate the most beautiful pieces of art… And they represent our country. And now they want to do it again. They want to put it in. I told you, we can’t let it happen.”
 Over the last four years, David Purdue has been one of the toughest fighters for our America First, America First agenda in Washington. And David saw this. Did you see last week? China said… China doesn’t like me too much. They pay us billions and billions. That never happened. Billions and billions of dollars in tariffs and they pay it, they devalued their currency. They paid a lot of money. They don’t like me. The happiest people in the world right now are the leaders of China, the second happiest or the leaders of Iran. What we would have done in the next four years, we would have been on a footing like nobody’s ever. And now we’re giving it all away. But China said, “We will not deal with you unless you get rid of the America First policy.” And you know what the Democrats said? They said, “Yes, we will do that.” Can you believe this?
 And that’s what I realized what a brilliant name that is. We come up with some good ones, but that’s a good one. We came up with plenty of good ones, haven’t we? Some of them I won’t use because some of those people are now friends of mine, but we came up with some good ones. But America First and I looked at Melania a week ago and I said, “Can you believe it? They are saying that they don’t agree with America First.” How do you say that? I mean, how do you say it? “We don’t agree with America first. We agree with China. Yes. We will get rid of America First policy.” I think David, you don’t like that too much. Right?
 And if they’re here, it won’t happen because nothing’s going to be able to get past that’s not going to be reasonable. He fought to pass the largest package, David, of tax cuts and reforms in American history. He helped lead the effort to repeal a record number of job killing regulations, the likes of which you’ve never seen, including the unfair Waters of the United States Rule that crippled work for our farmers and our builders. It’s such a beautiful name, but it was destroying people and I’ll never… Waters of the United… How beautiful is that? Waters of the United States. And I said, “I got to get rid of it. I got to do it, but I’m going to get killed.” Because the only thing good about it was the title. Waters. “What are you doing today?” “I’m terminating waters of the United States.”
 Well it was a little bit like the Paris Environmental Accord, right? The Paris Environmental Accord. I said, “I’m going to get killed in this one.” But we would have paid trillions and trillions of dollars. Russia has a big advantage of us. They go back to old days when the air was very dirty, that was their standard. China doesn’t kick in until 2030. We kick in immediately. And the money that would have cost us… And if we adhere to it, we would have had to close up 20% of our factories. And now the first thing they want to do… John Kerry, great negotiator. The first thing they want to do is, number one, they want to bring back the Paris Environmental Accord, which will cost us.
 That was designed to destroy the United States. The second thing they want to do is, let’s give Iran billions of dollars. Oh, they’re so happy. Iran would have been in my office in the first hour after we won the election to make a deal. But perhaps they still will. He said they still will.
 After hurricane Michael devastated our farmers in Southwest Georgia, as I said, no one worked harder to get them relief than David Perdue. He would call me all the time. He actually called me more than Sonny and Sonny’s at Agriculture. What the hell’s going on, Sonny? Sonny, what happened to you, Sonny? It’s true, David would call all the time. And remember how tough the Democrats meant. They didn’t want to give them anything. But we got it. We got them more than they even thought possible.
 Senator Purdue helped pass the unprecedented $2.5 trillion investment in our United States Military delivering the largest pay raises, in addition to everything else, for our warriors in a decade. And we now have the greatest, most modern military in the history of our country. We have brand new fighter jets, brand new bombers, brand new missiles and rockets, hypersonic missiles. We have hypersonic and hydro-sonic. You know what hydro-sonic is? Water. We have them all. We have missiles that go seven times faster than any missile in the world.
 And when we took over, our military was decimated, our military was tired, our military was in big trouble. And you remember and I’ve said it a lot. One of the world’s most overrated generals came to see me. He said, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” We had a little problem with a certain country. And he said, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” I said, “Tell me, you’re not saying that.” We didn’t have ammunition. Think of it. We had very little ammunition and I’ll never forget that statement. I said, “That should never happen to a president of the United States again nor should being spied on ever happened to a president of the United States again.”
 Senator Perdue has been a tremendous leader on pro-American immigration reform. Like nobody else. He voted very powerfully when I was going through hell on the wall. They would have given me anything. They gave me the money for the military. They just didn’t want to give me money for the wall. So I took it out of the military. What the hell could I do? That was rather good. It’s good to be a developer. Everyone said it was. That was the one where the judges ruled yesterday. So they said it was fine because I called it natural security. So we took it out of the… They didn’t figure that one out. Now they do. But you know what? They don’t have to be careful because it’s turned out to be very popular, very successful.
 Shut down sanctuary cities. End chain migration and protect American jobs, David did. He voted to confirm nearly 300 of the judges that I talked about. The federal judges that interpret the constitution is written. And when the Democrat mob came for judge Kavanaugh, David Purdue stood strong. And I’m just thinking, they both stood strong when they impeached your president for making a perfect phone call too. I’m the only president ever will never… That got impeached for making a perfect phone call. But those two were among the best.
 Senator Purdue is an outsider, a businessman, a great businessman, and a true American Patriot. You need him fighting for you and your family and your values because the United States Senate cannot be the same without him. So that’s why I’m here. I don’t do these things for other people. In fact, I was curious, I didn’t know if anyone was going to show up. I said, “I’m doing it for other people.” This is a hell of a crowd lift. As far as the eye can see. As far as the eye can see. I don’t like doing it for other people. I said, “David and Kelly called, would you do a rally?” I said, “Not really. I did 56 of them in a little tiny period of time.” I said, “Let me have…” And I said, when they asked I… It was really not. But I don’t do them for other people. It’s a lot of work to do a rally. A lot of work. People don’t realize. When you do… I did five a day, the last four or five days. One day I did six. Six. And the smallest one… Think of it, the smallest one.
 And the smallest one, think of it, the smallest one at 25,000 people, you think that’s fun? In some of them it’s 75 degrees and another it’s 20 degrees below zero and you’re doing them both. I’m saying, “How’s the weather out there?” “Sir, it’s about 20 degrees below zero.” That’s good. Then I land the next step, “How are we doing?” “Sir, it’s 82.” David’s opponent Jon Ossoff is a radical left wing zealot who is very proud to be endorsed by Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie. Ossoff supports defunding the police, supports the crazy Green New Deal, that’s another beauty. Don’t forget, the Green New Neal is really $100 trillion, okay? It’s $100 trillion. They don’t say that, Louis, do they? Talk about 3 trillion? They got down to 3 trillion, no, it’s $100 trillion is what they wanted. That’s more money, if our economy was going unbelievable gangbusters for 100 years, no recession, no anything we couldn’t come close to making 100 trillion.
 They want to rip down buildings and rebuild them with no windows. I like windows, I like big, beautiful windows. He wants to do a total government takeover of healthcare that will destroy your doctor’s offices and rural hospitals. So if you are sick, if you have a cold go to a hospital, wait on line for about three days and hope you get a decent doctor. Ossoff also supports a crippling nationwide lockdown. He wants you to lock your home nice and tight after you’re inside of it and he passes legislation to let hardened criminals go free, get them out of jail, get them out of jail. Ossoff will be a complete tool for the radical left donors who are trying to buy Georgia Senate seats.
 You see the money these people have raised? I mean, well, of course I just raised $250 million and I should say. I didn’t raise it’s just… I said, how are we doing on that front? Because we didn’t get great publicity, boy, they were so happy these guys. You might not be happy in a few weeks, you might not. They were so happy. I said, “How’s fundraising going?” They said, “Sir, about 250 million.” I said, “250 million what?” “Dollars.” How the hell did that happen? Because people believe in what we’re doing, that’s why. They believe in what we’re doing. But that’s why Ossoff’s donations come from Silicon Valley, San Francisco and the other liberal places and they don’t come from Georgia. This is not your fault… I know you. You’re with me, I’m with you, we’ve always had wins from primers to two elections. We won two elections, believe it or not. I think I won the second one by more than I won the first one, I do, right? I won the second one by more.
 On January 5th you also need to vote for your incredible Republican Senator Kelly Loeffler. Kelly has been an exceptional champion for Georgia’s workers and families. And I know what they fight for. If I could tell you about David, I could tell you about Kelly, she fights for you every single day, loves you state. When our nation was hit with the China virus, Senator Loeffler helped rescue the U.S. economy by voting to pass a historic $3 trillion bill relief for American workers and families that a lot of people were against it and turned out to be a great thing. Kelly, thank you.
 A lot of people said, “Oh, it’s too much.” I said, “It’s not their fault that I want to get them more money now.” And I like the higher number rather than the lower number, we’ll make it back. With our help we secured $15 billion for 175,000 Georgia small businesses and saved 1.5 million Georgia jobs, that was both of them really, both of them. Kelly is a relentless advocate for Georgia farmers and she is for tirelessly to get them relief in this pandemic. And by the way her husband is a fine man who’s one of the most respected men in the country, I want to tell you that. I want to tell you that. He’s a great man, he’s a great gentleman.
 If you’re successful that it’s supposed to be a bad thing. No, I think it means you’re smart sometimes, right? He’s a smart guy but he’s a great guy, he’s a great man. At the urging of Kelly and David my administration took historic action to protect growers of Georgia blueberries, peppers, squash and cucumbers. Who does cucumbers around here? Because I like cucumbers. I’m the only one, I like cucumbers.
 When our law enforcement heroes were under attack Senator Loeffler stood up to the Marxists and introduced legislation to protect our brave men and women in blue and she was threatened all over the place. That threat meant nothing. That was a wasted number of phone calls or however the hell they threatened you, that was a waste of time. She also introduced legislation to prevent Democrat gun grabbers like Beto O’Rouke. Remember Beto? Beto.
 There’s a guy, here’s another one. He wants to take your guns away. Oh, by the way, Trump is going to lose Texas but Beto O’Rouke who’s a big factor of that all thing wants to take. Remember when Beto was running he was riding high and then Ted Cruz has done a great job, beat Beto O’Rouke. But Beto was riding high for a while. I remember he was on the cover of a certain really bad magazine, I won’t mention the name it’s failing. It won’t be in business for another six months, I don’t think, I hope. But he was on the cover and he said, “I was born to do this.” And I said, “Anybody that says they were born to do this they’re going to be losing very quickly.” And you know what? Within about two months he was a stone cold loser. And just weeks ago Senator Loeffler her vote to confirm our newest Supreme Court Justice, Amy Coney Barrett. They both did by the way, they both did. I can’t leave David out of that one.
 Kelly’s opponent, Raphael Warnock is a dangerous extremist who is radically opposed to your values. He said he believes that, “Nobody can serve God and the military.” Oh, really? An appalling statement that dishonors the memory and generations of American heroes who fought for God and for our country. Raphael Warnock has openly declared his support for socialism and he is even praised Marxists all over the world. He once hosted the barbaric communist dictator, Fidel Castro. He likes Castro, he thinks he was a good man. “He was a good guy,” he said. He falsely slandered patriotic Americans as racist. He called police officers gangsters, thugs, and bullies.
 He supports abolishing cash bail. Look at what happened to New York with their cash bail, no cash bail. Don’t bail, don’t worry about it. You killed somebody, don’t worry about it you’re on the honor code. And he’s declared, “Open up the jails.” Free the violent criminals and prey on Georgia families, children. Now you can’t do that. This is not for Georgia, yeah, I’m telling you. It might be for some places that I tell you that too, this is not for Georgia. I think Raphael has to move to another state.
 Try it again. Warnock is strongly anti-Israel and Warnock’s own writings make clear that he believes America is a sinister nation that must be punished. Don’t just take my word for it. We did something, I shouldn’t be doing this for them, of course it’s too much money but we’ll do it anyway. We have a little video to play, please.
 So we had, I just looked at that one scene because it was in Washington and we had about a month ago incredible crowds of people. They were angry as hell at the election and they showed up and it was incredible, there were hundreds of thousands of people, people couldn’t believe. Now, of course some of the fake news said, “Hundreds of people.” Again, no, no, tens of thousands of people. And Antifa, Antifa showed up. Not the right but the left showed up and they looked at some of these people and they wanted to attack the crowd. They looked and they said, “No, thank you,” and they left. No problem. They looked at some of these people they said, “No, thank you.”
 Then it broke up about three o’clock, everyone went home very peacefully, it was a beautiful day, actually. They all went home peacefully. And that night they came back and there were a few families that stayed around with young children and there were some elderly people that were having dinner in Washington, very elderly people. And they got attacked, those people got attacked viciously by the scum from Antifa. We can’t let this happen, we can’t let this happen.
 But what they didn’t play, what the fake news didn’t play is during the day they walked in and they wanted to do some damage and they took a look and they said, “No, thank you, we won’t do it. We’ll wait. We’ll wait till we get the people with the children. We’ll wait till we get the elderly people that want to stay in Washington and really just have a good time.” And it was disgusting to watch. On January 5th, you must defeat Ossoff and Warnock and send two great people, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler back to the Senate. And if you don’t mind I’d like to ask David and Kelly to come up and say a few words, please.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Thank you both. Thank you, thank you. We’re fighting, we’re going to fight like you never saw before, thank you. We can’t let what happened three weeks ago, we can’t let it happen. Note, it’s beyond me. We can’t let it happen. And somewhere there’s going to be a champion, you’re a champion, somewhere there’s going to be a champion that’s going to do what’s right. Because this has been going on for a long time, but never like it’s happened recently. And they’ve used the pandemic and the phony fake ballots, the mail-in ballots, they used that to sabotage our country. We’re not going to let it happen.
 As you know a major issue in this state is voter fraud, it’s been a big issue for a long time but never like this. We sent out tens of thousands, millions and millions of ballots. Nobody knew where they came from, where they are, people were getting two, three, four ballots. They were signing them, sending them in, what a mess. And I said it a year ago and I said it every month and I even said, “Let’s postpone the election,” and they said, “Oh, he’s not at American.” They knew what they were doing. They knew what they were doing.
 Were all deeply disturbed and upset by the lying, cheating, robbing, stealing that’s gone on with our elections. We know the Democrats will have dead people voting and you got to watch it, dead people. You wouldn’t believe how many illegal aliens from out of the state and they’ll be filing out and filling out ballots for people who don’t even exist. They put up names, they have people signing their own name over and over. They have people signing names with the same pen, with the same signature. They don’t even change because they know once they get it in it’ll never be looked at, it’ll never be looked at again because of people like your secretary of state and your governor.
 So we want signature verification but the answer… And we’re going to be very careful, we’re going to watch every ballot, David and Kelly, we can’t let this happen again. And again we have more light shining here because of what happened and because of the fact it’s pinpointed. The answer to the Democrat fraud is not stay at home, that’s what Nancy Pelosi and Schumer, that’s what they want you to do, stay at home, just stay at home. If you want to do something to them, I don’t want to use the word revenge, but it is a certain revenge to the Democrats. You show up and vote in record numbers, that’s what you have to do.
 They can only win if they cheat, they can’t win this state unless they cheat and they cheat better than anybody. When you think it the Republicans are much nicer. They’re not nearly as vicious, maybe a few of us. “Republicans are too nice,” she said. You’re right. That’s a very good.. Thank you very much, I like that. But they are, they’re too nice. They don’t go after these criminals, they got to go after them. We’re talking to people, “Go after them,” they don’t go after them. They’re afraid they’ll hurt their reputation when they get out, I don’t know, they don’t go after them. But we’re watching this so closely, we have everybody watching. You got to get out and vote.
 Let them steal Georgia again you’ll never be able to look yourself in the mirror. We have to hold the line and you have two of the greatest people in earth so we have to hold the line. Make sure that you and everyone else know that you have to register to vote before this Monday, December 7th, is that right? Monday, December 7th, you have to register to vote. Of course, you’ll probably be allowed to if you’re a Democrat, they don’t have any time limit. Did you see where Stacey is allowed to harvest but other people can’t harvest. How is that constitutional? How is that constitutional? Has anybody looked at that?
 Go to georgia.gov and register immediately then request your absentee ballot before December 31st. Don’t delay, watch it closely. Do it today, do it tomorrow and return your ballot the same day you get it. So they can’t say, “Gee, it didn’t come in on time.” You know what they did it in one of the states? Ballots were coming in late, very, very late so they backdated the ballots. We have all the information, we have so much evidence. And then you go to a court, “Oh, they don’t have enough evidence.” We have hundreds and hundreds and even thousands of affidavits. And they say, “Oh, he doesn’t have the evidence.” We have so much evidence we don’t know what to do with it. I’m saying, “Do we put all of this into a file?” Again it’s like with wheelbarrows.
 If you aren’t planning to vote by mail, vote early in person or vote on election day. Whatever you do I need each of you, every one of you, your friends, your family to go and vote. And after we win we need to pass landmark election reform including voter ID, is that so bad? Residency verification, like we live in the country, we live in this state. Citizenship confirmation. They want to say, “Oh, he doesn’t have to be a citizen.” You got to see what’s voting… They’re not citizens. “You’re a citizen?” “No, I’m not citizen.” “You speak English?” No, no English. I speak, no English.” “Oh, you’re voting?” “Yeah.” This is the craziest thing.
 The Democrat National Committee had their convention. And they had a picture, you couldn’t get in unless you had a picture, you had a photo ID. But when it comes to the most important thing voting they don’t want to do it. And they know, they know exactly. We just can’t let that happen. I’ve only been doing this for short time. Believe me this is something we’re going to do because we can’t allow it to happen. And complete overhaul of our election security systems because right now Dominion is a joke, okay? Not a very funny joke.
 It’s a disgrace that in 2020 no state in America even makes any real attempt to verify that those who cast ballots by mail are eligible and lawfully registered voters. The evidence of fraud is overwhelming and again, I’m going to ask you to look up at that very, very powerful and very expensive screen. I do this for a few people, let’s go.
 So if you just take the crime of what those Democrat workers were doing, and by the way, there was no water main break. You know they said… there was no water main break.
 That’s 10 times more than I need to win this state, 10 times more. It’s 10 times maybe more than that, but it’s 10 times more because we lost by a very close number. The alleged Biden margin of victory in several states is entirely accounted for by extraordinarily large midnight vote dumps. You saw them going up to the sky, all extremely skewed to Biden. Like, Biden would get 10,000 votes and Trump would get three in a Trump area. Oh. For, example, at 6:31 AM in Michigan, reported 141,238 votes for Joe Biden and 5,900 votes for Donald Trump.
 96% for Biden, 4% for Trump in an area where I should be doing quite well. You know, I won almost every county in Michigan, almost every district, except for one. And they actually had more people, if you look at the ballots, they had ballots all over. They had more ballots than they had people voting. How do you do that? So they had people and they’re voting, and then as you know, two of the canvassers were very brave. They didn’t vote, and they got the hell knocked out of them from the standpoint of what they went through. All the cameras went off and then they raised their hand, but then they couldn’t sign it ultimately, but more ballots than they had voters. Now, how simple is that?
 A similar vote dump occurred in Wisconsin at 3:42 AM. This is 3:42 in the morning. In fact, when I went to bed that night, everybody was calling, “Congratulations. You’re up 600,000 votes in Pennsylvania.” Across all of the key swing states, there were impossibly low rejection rates, you saw that, for mail-in ballots, drastically less than the historic norm. In Georgia 0.5% of the mail-in ballots were rejected in 2020 compared to 5.77%. That’s a difference of 11 times more. It’s hundreds of thousands of votes. In Pennsylvania, 0.03% were rejected in 2020 compared to a much, much higher percentage in 2016. This issue alone is enough to change the election results in many states.
 Whistleblowers. And that’s the smallest of the issues, whistleblowers in multiple states have testified to witnessing postal workers and election workers illegally backdating thousands and thousands of ballots, fixing ballots, filling out false birthdays, registering ineligible voters, and much, much more. We’re talking about hundreds of thousands of votes in each state. In Arizona, a sample of 100 ballots reviewed by a judge found that a very small percentage of these ballots, very small, but when you look at it, it was turned out to be very large, it was tens of thousands of votes, more than we would have needed to win Arizona. We should have won that state very easily. We have a similar type of governor, I think, but I’ll let you know that in about a week.
 In one Michigan county, and by the way, when Laura Ingram interviewed your governor, he said he was an offensive lineman. I said, “That’s strange. He doesn’t look like an offensive lineman to me.” In one Michigan county using Dominion voting systems, nearly 6,000 votes were discovered that were wrongly switched from Trump to Biden. They called it a glitch. You know a glitch? Just like the machine broke. Numerous times we found glitches, and every single time, the glitch went a hundred percent to Biden and no percent to Trump. The same systems are used in 30 states.
 The left lies, they cheat and they steal. They are ruthless and they are hellbent on getting power and control by any means necessary. They investigate you and they prosecute you. The moment you question them, they try and intimidate you. They call you a poor American. You’re not a good American. You don’t love our country. They don’t love our country. They beat you down, shut you up and make you retreat. That’s what they do. That’s what they’ve done to your governor. They’ve done that to your governor. Your governor should be ashamed of himself. That’s what they want to do right here in Georgia. They want you to be quiet. They want you to go away, but we don’t go away. We don’t go.
 It’s the biggest open secret in America that Democrats cheat in elections, this year by sending out 65 million mail-in ballots. They perpetrated the largest fraud in the history of our country. Democrat officials and politicians in every swing state, systematically weakened every measure to combat election fraud. They ensured that there were no identity checks, no signature checks. “I want to check a signature, please.” “I’m sorry. We don’t let you do that.” No eligibility checks, no nothing.
 Every single one of you know that if these ballots are properly audited, if the signatures and envelopes were examined, if the envelopes were correlated to the votes, because you’ll find there are far more ballots than there are envelopes, all you have to do is count them up. How many ballots do you have? How many envelopes do you have? And if the voter rolls are studied, in other words, studied to check the signature. “Ms. Smith. Oh, it’s a totally different signature from 2 years ago, from 6 years ago, from 10 years ago. What’s that all about?” We will find that hundreds of thousands of ballots were illegally cast in your state and all over the country, by the way, more than enough to give us a total historic victory.
 This is our country that they are… and you know this and you see it, but they’re trying to take it from us through rigging, fraud, deception, and deceit. That’s what we saw in the election. That’s what’s going on, and it’s happening right now in our country. We will do something about it, and we’re going to do something about it quickly. We’re going to be watching on January 5th, we’re going to be watching every element of what they do. This fraud that they perpetrated on our country, we’re going to be watching it more closely than any election has ever been watched. Hopefully, our legislatures and the United States Supreme Court will step forward and save our country.
 I used to say, “Without borders, we don’t have a country.” I can say also without an honest voting system, without an electoral process that works and that’s honest and fair, we don’t have a country either. We need to check every single signature in the presidential and senatorial elections. Right now, we have to get out to vote for David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler to show the radical left that we will never surrender, we will only win. We’re going to win. We always win. Somehow we find a way to win.
 Now, is not the time to retreat. Now is the time to fight harder than ever before. So don’t listen to my friends. Just go out, just go out. And you know what they’re saying? They’re saying, “We want you to fix the system.” We’re going to fix the system, but the system will be fixed when these people get in. They’ll get in and we’ll fix this system because we’re all victims. Everybody here, all these thousands of people here tonight, they’re all victims, every one of you.
 The next great victory for our movement begins right here on January 5th. Then we are going to win back the White House. We’re going to win it back. We’re going to take back the house in 2022, and then in 2024. And hopefully I won’t have to be a candidate, we’re going to win back the White House again. A friend of mine said, “Oh, don’t worry about it, sir. You’re way up in the polls. You’ll win in 2024.” I said, “I don’t want to wait until 2024. I want to go back three weeks.”
 We’re thrilled to be joined tonight by some real friends of all of ours, Representatives Doug Collins. It was fantastic, and by the way, I’ve got to tell you. As you know, he and Kelly had a great primary, a very strong primary. They both did fantastically well, and he is on board and he is one of the greatest advocates I’ve ever met in Washington. I want to thank Doug Collins. Where’s Doug? Thank you, Doug. What a job he does. Thank you. Doug, you want to run for governor in two years [inaudible 01:33:45]? Yeah. Good-looking governor.
 A friend of mine, one of the toughest guys you’ll ever see, Louie Gohmert of Texas. Louie. Thank you Louie. Thank you, Louie. And a young up-and-comer who’s taken Washington by storm, Dan Crenshaw. Where’s Dan? Where’s Dan? Where is Dan? I didn’t see you, Dan. The first time that’s ever happened to me. Yeah, because you do stand out in many ways. Thank you very much, San.
 The next Senator from Tennessee just got elected. Did my endorsement help? Ah? Better believe it. We love Tennessee. Bill Haggerty. He’s going to be a great Senator. He’s going to be a great senator for a long time. You’re a former eight-year governor. He only left because of a thing called term limits. If I would’ve known, I would’ve tried to end those term limits, but he went to the Department of Agriculture as his head.
 He’s done a tremendous job. We’ve handed out $28 billion to farmers, 28 billion. I said, how badly have we been targeted by China? And Sonny produced that over a two-year period, sir. $28 billion. That’s when I put the tariffs on China, took the money and gave it out to the farmers. And we had a lot of money left over and we put that into the U.S. treasury, right Sonny? You’ve done a fantastic job. He knows more about farms than any human being.
 State representative. A friend of mine, and great gentleman. He saw what was happening. He happens to be a Democrat, but we love him. I’m trying to talk him into joining our party. Vernon Jones. [inaudible 01:35:36]. Thank you Vernon. What a great guy.
 Agriculture commissioner, Gary Black. Gary, good job you’re doing. Boy, what a good reputation. Thank you very much, Gary. Your Public Service Commission’s Tricia Pridemore, Jason Shaw and a great man. Great, great man who’s also on the ballot next month. Bubba McDonald. I like that name. Where’s Bubba? [inaudible 01:36:06].
 Great, great job. Great job. That’s great. Thanks a lot, Bubba. And I introduce you to Bert Jones. Bert’s going to be a very important man, I think, over the next coming with William and Brandon and the folks and I appreciate it. And Greg, thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it very much. Very important. Georgia Republican Party Chairman, David Shafer. David. Hi David, how are we doing, David? We’ll fire you so fast if we don’t. Now, David’s done a great, great job, and he works very closely with RMC chairwoman. This is how we won. We won a great state. We won a great state known as Michigan when she was there. And I said, “Let’s bring her to Washington.” Ronna McDaniel. Thank you, Ronna. Thank you. Thank you, Rona.
 Over the last four years, we’ve built the greatest political movement in the history of our country. Already, we’ve achieved more than anyone thought possible and we’re just getting started and we don’t want other people to rip it apart. We must reelect Kelly and David to keep it going for decades. Our politicians spent trillions and trillions of dollars rebuilding other foreign nations, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders. We want to defend our border if it’s okay. And we’re now finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities, and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA where they belong, thank you.
 Bringing them home. Not easy to bring them home. I bring them home, and they say, “Well, Sir, we got to keep them there, sir. We got to keep spending money.” We got to keep giving money to these countries that can’t stand us, that nobody ever heard of-
 In everything we do, we are putting America first. We ended the war on American energy and the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth.
 We achieved the most secure border in U.S. history, and we built our wall, as I say. Very important for you because you’re a big military between the equipment we build and VA choice and VA accountability, right? You ever notice the vets? We used to always have… On television, you’d have the fake news, they’d always be… Well in that case, it wasn’t fake, but for years, you’d always see vets how badly treated they were, how badly treated. I shouldn’t say this because they’ll find one somewhere in the country, but you don’t see that. You don’t see that anymore. You don’t see the stories on the evening news about vets that are being treated horribly. And accountability was a big factor. We fired 9,000 horrible people that took advantage of our vets, and they’re gone. Now if our vets don’t get good service, they go out, they see a doctor. We pay the bill, they get better. They don’t wait in line for weeks and months.
 We destroyed 100% of the ISIS caliphate in Iraq and Syria. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi and we eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, and I think they want to start it up again. Can you believe this?
 I wonder if they’ll give him 150 billion. No, they’ll give him 250. They were ready to rock. They were ready to do whatever we wanted. Now they’re going to… they’re salivating. I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem, and also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Instead of endless war, we are forging peace all over the world.
 And you know, we have the greatest military ever. We have the greatest equipment, all made in the USA. A lot of it made in Georgia, but you know what? I’m the only one in many, many decades that hasn’t started a war. Everyone thought that with my personality, I’d be in war the first week. They were all saying war, and we developed relationships. Let’s see how he would do with Kim Jong-un of North Korea. I don’t think too well, but whatever happened to that? Remember I came in, it was going to be war with North Korea. It was going to be war with everybody.
 Now, we built the greatest military in the world and the better it is, the less likely it is that we’re going to have to use it. But everything that we’ve achieved together is on the line on June 5th. And this election, you can send a message to the fake news media, and there’s a lot of them right back there.
 They’ll find something wrong with this evening. I don’t know what it is, but they’ll find something wrong. Maybe it was the person that shouted love. They’ll say I was a horrible protester. They’ll find something. Kelly and David, they’re going to find something. They’re looking and having a hard time. It’s been a love fest. This is a love fest for these two people. But they all want the Silicon Valley sensors and the corrupt Democrat political machine. They’re partners. You must vote for David Perdue and Kelly Leffler. Go out and vote. With your help, we are going to continue our mission to save America. We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. They’re going to take your guns away.
 We will always support the heroes of law enforcement. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will preserve peace through strength. We will protect social security and Medicare, and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
 We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and children, and restore a patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. We will live by the words of our national motto, In God We Trust.
 From Atlanta to Augusta, from Savannah to Columbus and from Athens to right here, right here, this is a nice place. It’s a nice place, Valdosta. We inherit the legacy of generations of American patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world.
 And if they get in, and add me into the group, if you don’t mind, we will be greater than ever before without question. The best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. Our fight to drain the Washington swamp and reclaim America’s destiny has just begun. We will not bend. We will not break. We will not yield. We will never give in. We will never give up and we will never back down. We will never, ever surrender because we are Americans and our hearts bleed red, white, and blue.
 We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Georgia, we have made America powerful again. They’ve done it. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Georgia. Get out and vote, get out and vote.
 Thank you. This may be the most important speech I’ve ever made. I want to provide an update on our ongoing efforts to expose the tremendous voter fraud and irregularities which took place during the ridiculously long November 3rd elections. We used to have what was called, election day. Now we have election days, weeks, and months, and lots of bad things happened during this ridiculous period of time, especially when you have to prove almost nothing to exercise our greatest privilege, the right to vote. As President, I have no higher duty than to defend the laws and the Constitution of the United States. That is why I am determined to protect our election system, which is now under coordinated assault and siege.
 For months, leading up to the Presidential election, we were warned that we should not declare a premature victory. We were told repeatedly that it would take weeks if not, months, to determine the winner, to count the absentee ballots and to verify the results. My opponent was told to stay away from the election, don’t campaign. “We don’t need you. We’ve got it. This election is done.” In fact, they were acting like they already knew what the outcome was going to be. They had it covered and perhaps they did, very sadly for our country. It was all very, very strange. Within days after the election, we witnessed an orchestrated effort to anoint the winner even while many key states were still being counted.
 The constitutional process must be allowed to continue. We’re going to defend the honesty of the vote by ensuring that every legal ballot is counted and that no illegal ballot is counted. This is not just about honoring the votes of 74 million Americans who voted for me, it’s about ensuring that Americans can have faith in this election and in all future elections.
 Today I will detail some of the shocking irregularities, abuses and fraud that had been revealed in recent weeks but before laying out just a small portion of the evidence we have uncovered, and we have so much evidence, I want to explain the corrupt mail-in balloting scheme that Democrats systematically put into place that allowed voting to be altered, especially in swing states, which they had to win. They just didn’t know that it was going to be that tough, because we were leading in every swing state by so much, far greater than they ever thought possible. While it has long been understood that the Democrat political machine engages in voter fraud from Detroit to Philadelphia, to Milwaukee, Atlanta, so many other places. What changed this year was the Democrat party’s relentless push to print and mail out tens of millions of ballots sent to unknown recipients with virtually no safeguards of any kind. This allowed fraud and abuse to occur in a scale never seen before. Using the pandemic as a pretext, Democrat politicians and judges drastically changed election procedures just months, and in some cases, weeks before the election on the 3rd of November.
 Very rarely were legislatures involved and constitutionally, they had to be involved, but very, very rarely, and you’ll see that as we continue to file our suits, it’s constitutionally, absolutely incorrect what took place, even from a legal standpoint. Many states, such as Nevada and California sent millions of live ballots to every person on their voter rolls whether those individuals had requested ballots or not, whether they were dead or alive, they got ballots. Other states such as Minnesota, Michigan, and Wisconsin, instituted universal absentee balloting right in the middle of an election year, sending absentee ballot requests forms to all voters on all rolls. It didn’t matter who they were. This colossal expansion of mail-in voting opened the flood gates to massive fraud. It’s a widely known fact that the voting rolls are packed with people who are not lawfully eligible to vote, including those who are deceased, have moved out of their state, and even our non-citizens of our country.
 Beyond this, the records are riddled with errors, wrong addresses, duplicate entries, and many other issues. This is not disputed. It has never been disputed. Dozens of counties in the key swing states have more registered voters on the rolls than they have voting age citizens, including 67 counties in Michigan. All of this is evidence. In Wisconsin, the state’s Board of Elections could not confirm the residency of more than 100,000 people, but repeatedly refused to remove those names from its voter rolls before the election. They knew why, nobody else did. I knew why. They were illegal voters. It is a travesty that in the year 2020, we do not have any means of verifying the eligibility of those who cast ballots in an election and such an important election it is, or determining who they are, whether they live in the state or whether they’re even American citizens. We have no idea.
 We have an in all swing states major infractions or outright fraud, which is far more in numbers or votes then we need to overturn the results of a state. In other words, in Wisconsin, as an example, where we were way up on election night, they ultimately had us miraculously losing by 20,000 votes. I can show you right here, that Wisconsin, we’re leading by a lot and then at 3:42 in the morning, there was this, it was a massive dump of votes, mostly Biden, almost all Biden. To this day, everyone’s trying to figure out, “Where did it come from?” But I went from leading by a lot, to losing by a little and that’s right here. That’s at 3:42 in the morning, that’s Wisconsin, a terrible thing, terrible, terrible thing.
 But we will have far more, many times more than the 20,000 votes needed to overturn the state. If we are right about the fraud, Joe Biden can’t be president. We’re talking about hundreds of thousands of votes. We’re talking about numbers like nobody has ever seen before. Just as an example, in certain states, we’ll be down by, let’s say, 7,000 votes, but we’ll find later on 20,000, 50,000, 100,00, 200,000 discrepancies or fraudulent votes, and that includes votes that went through when they were not allowed to be seen by Republican poll watchers, because the poll watchers were locked out of the building. Or people that innocently came to vote on November 3rd, who were all excited about their vote, they were happy. They were proud to be citizens of the United States of America, and they went up and they said, “I’d like to vote.” They were told that they can’t vote. “I’m sorry,” they were told, “I’m sorry. You’ve already voted by mail-in ballot. Congratulations. We received a ballot, so you can no longer vote.”
 They didn’t know what to do. They had no one to complain to, most just left and said, “That’s strange.” But many people complained and complained vehemently, and in a lot of cases, they filled out a provisional ballot, which was almost never used, but in virtually every case was a vote for Trump. In other words, they went in to vote and they were told that they voted and they didn’t vote. They left and they felt horror and they lost respect for our system. This happened tens of thousands of times all over the country. That’s how desperate the Democrats were. They would fill out ballots of people not even knowing if these people were going to show up. When they did show up, they said, “Sorry, you’ve already voted.”
 On top of everything else, we have a company that’s very suspect. It’s name is Dominion, with the turn of a dial or the change of a chip, you could press a button for Trump and the vote goes to Biden. What kind of a system is this? We have to go to paper, maybe it takes longer. But the only secure system is paper. Not these systems that nobody understands, including in many cases, the people that run them. Although, unfortunately, I think they understand them far too well.
 In one Michigan County, as an example, that used Dominion systems, they found that nearly 6,000 votes had been wrongly switched from Trump to Biden, and this is just the tip of the iceberg. This is what we caught. How many didn’t we catch? Are there 100s of other examples throughout the country? Are there 1000s? We just got lucky and they called it a glitch, but we found numerous glitches that evening. 96% of the company’s political donations went to Democrats, not surprisingly. Frankly, when you look at who’s running the company, who’s in charge, who owns it, which we don’t know, where are the votes counted? Which we think are counted in foreign countries, not in the United States, Dominion is a disaster. Election authorities in Texas have repeatedly blocked the deployment of Dominion systems due to concerns about security vulnerabilities and the potential for errors and outright fraud. Every district that uses Dominion systems must be carefully monitored and carefully investigated, but not only for the future.
 Right now, we’re worried about the present, and what went on with an election that we won without question. Under my lead, the Republicans won almost every state house in the United States, which they weren’t expected to do. We went up to 16 seats in the house. The numbers are still being tabulated, because there are nine seats that nobody really knows. They don’t know. Two weeks later, it’s still under consideration, because it’s a mess. Republicans were supposed to lose many seats, and instead they won those seats in the house, and a very important election that’s coming up will determine whether, or not we hold the Senate.
 David Perdue and Kelly Leffler are two tremendous people. Unfortunately, in Georgia, they’re using the same horrible dominion system, and it’s already been out that, think of it, hundreds of thousands of absentee ballots have been requested. You check it out who’s requesting those ballots. The difference is, it’s one state, and we will have our eyes on it like nobody’s ever watched anything before, because we have to win those two Senate seats. The tremendous success we had in the House of Representatives, and the tremendous success we’ve had so far in the Senate, unexpected success all over the country, and right here in Washington.
 It is statistically impossible that the person, me, that led the charge lost. The greatest pollsters, the real pollsters, not the ones that had us down 17 points in Wisconsin when we actually won, or the ones that had us down four or five points in Florida, and we won by many points, or had us even, and down in Texas, and we won by a lot, not those pollsters, but real pollsters. Pollsters that are fair, and honest said, “We can’t understand a thing like this. It’s never happened before. You led the country to victory, and you were the only one that was lost. It’s not possible.”
 The speaker of the house of a certain state said, “Sir, I expected to lose my seat, and instead, because of you, and because of that incredible charge, and all of those rallies, we had a tremendous victory, and everybody knows it. You are much more popular than me, sir, except I got many more votes than you did, and it’s impossible that that happened. There is something wrong.” I’ll tell you what’s wrong, voter fraud. Here’s an example. This is Michigan. At 6:31 in the morning, a vote dump of 149,772 votes came in unexpectedly. We were winning by a lot. That batch was received in horror.
 Nobody knows anything about it. By the way, there’s your line. This is one of many. Here’s what is normal, and all of a sudden, look at that. This is normal, normal. Look even here, normal, and then boom, all of a sudden, I go from winning by a lot to losing a tight race. It’s corrupt. Detroit is corrupt. I have a lot of friends in Detroit. They know it, but Detroit is totally corrupt. Look at this, look at this. That’s at 6:31 in the morning, unexpectedly came in. In the recent recount in Georgia, which means nothing because they don’t want to check signatures, and if you’re not going to check signatures in Georgia, it doesn’t work, but we have a secretary of state, and a governor who made it very difficult to check signatures.
 Why? You’ll have to ask them, but without a signature match, or a check, it doesn’t matter. They found thousands and thousands of votes that were out of whack, all against me. This was during a recount that I didn’t even think mattered. They found many thousands of votes, and that recount didn’t matter. The one that matters is the one that’s going on now, that because of the fact it’s so close, they had to by law give another recount, but the recount has to be a recount where they check the signatures. Otherwise, they’re just checking the same dishonest thing. It won’t matter.
 In this case, the signatures on envelopes are the only thing that is relevant. We will compare the signature on the envelope to the signatures from past elections, and we will find that many thousands of people signed these ballots illegally. The Democrats had this election rigged right from the beginning. They used the pandemic, sometimes referred to as the China virus, where it originated as an excuse to mail out tens of millions of ballots, which ultimately led to a big part of the fraud, a fraud that the whole world is watching, and there is no one happier right now than China.
 Many people received two, three and four ballots. They were sent to dead people by the thousands. In fact, dead people, and we have many examples filled out ballots, made applications, and then, voted, which is even worse. In other words, dead people went through a process. Some have been dead for 25 years. Millions of votes were cast illegally in the swing states alone, and if that’s the case, the results of the individual swing states must be overturned, and overturned immediately. Some people say that’s too far out, that’s too harsh. Well, does that mean we take a precedent, and we’ve just elected a president where the votes were fraudulent?
 No, it means you have to turn over the election, and everybody knows without going much further, and they’ve seen the evidence, but they don’t want to talk about it what a disaster this election was, a total catastrophe, but we’re going to show it, and hopefully, the courts in particular, the Supreme Court of the United States will see it, and respectfully, hopefully, they will do what’s right for our country, because our country can not live with this kind of an election. We could say, let’s go on to the next one, but no, we have to look also at our past. We can’t let this happen.
 Maybe you’ll have a revote, but I don’t think that’s appropriate. When those votes are corrupt, when they’re irregular, when they get caught, they’re terminated, and I very easily win. In all states, I very easily win, the swing states, just like I won them at 10 o’clock in the evening, the evening of the election. We’re not looking to show you 25 faulty or fraudulent votes, which don’t mean anything, because it doesn’t overturn the state, or a fifty, or a hundred. We’re showing you hundreds of thousands far more than we need, far more than the margin, far more than the law requires. We can show many times what is necessary to win the state.
 The media knows this, but they don’t want to report it. In fact, they outright refuse to even cover it, because they know the result if they do. Even what I’m saying now will be demeaned and disparaged, but that’s okay. I just keep on going forward, because I’m representing 74 million people, and in fact, I’m also representing all of the people that didn’t vote for me. The mail-in voting scam is the latest part of their four year effort to overturn the results of the 2016 election, and it’s been like living in hell. Our opponents have proven many times again and again, that they will say, and do anything to get back into power.
 The corrupt forces who are registering dead voters and stuffing ballot boxes are the same people who have perpetrated one phony and fraudulent hoax after another. You’ve been watching it now for four years. These entrenched interests oppose our movement, because we put America first. They don’t put America first, and we’re returning power to you the American people. They don’t want America first, they only want power for themselves. They want to make money, that’s why they don’t want me as your president. I’ve been investigated from soon after I announced I was running for president. When I immediately went to number one in the Republican primary polls, the investigations never stopped. They went on for four years, and I won them all, I beat them all. Russia, Russia, Russia, the impeachment hoax, and so much more. Robert Mueller spent $48 million of taxpayer money investigating me for two and a half years, issued over 2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500 search warrants, issued 230 orders for communications records, and conducted 500 witness interviews, all looking to take me down. There was no collusion in the end, none whatsoever. Senator Marco Rubio, the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee stated, “The committee found no evidence that then candidate Donald Trump, or his campaign colluded with the Russian government.” And, I thank Senator Rubio for that statement.
 Now, I hear that these same people that failed to get me in Washington have sent every piece of information to New York, so that they can try to get me there. It’s all been gone over, over and over again. For $48 million you go through tax returns, you go through everything. The New York attorney general, who recently ran for office campaigned without knowing me stating, “We will join with law enforcement and other attorneys general across this nation in removing this president from office.” I never met her.
 “It’s important that everybody understands”, she said, “that the days of Donald Trump are coming to an end.” And all it’s been is a big investigation in Washington and New York and any place else that can investigate because that’s what they want to do. They want to take not me, but us down. Then we can never let them do that. Everything has been looked at. A friend of mine, who’s very smart, said, “You’ve probably seen more than anybody else. You’ve probably been investigated more than anybody else. And for you to come out with a clean bill of health makes you probably the cleanest person in this country.”
 Some people in this administration, but fortunately not all have been beaten down and disparaged. They just disappeared. Nobody knows what happened to them. Why aren’t they active? Why aren’t they involved? There’s so much to be involved in. The corruption is so rampant. They just couldn’t take it anymore. They were threatened by Democrats with impeachment and horrible things were said about them. And they’re good people. Even recently, the head of the GSA was hounded and harassed as she reported, like she has never been before. What can I say? We caught Comey cold, we caught McCabe cold. We caught them all. We’re still waiting for a report from a man named Durham, who I have never spoken to, and I have never met. They can go after me before the election as much as they want, but unfortunately Mr. Durham didn’t want to go after these people, or have anything to do with going after them before the election. So who knows if he is ever going to even do a report.
 But if you look at the lies, and the leaks, and the illegal acts of behavior done by so many people, and their desire to hurt the president of the United States, something should happen. The hardest thing I have to do is explain why nothing is happening with all of these people that got caught spying on my campaign. It’s never happened before and it should never happen again to a president of the United States. All you have to do is watch the hearings and see for yourself. The evidence is overwhelming. The fraud that we’ve collected in recent weeks is overwhelming, having to do with our election. Everyone is saying, ” Wow, the evidence is overwhelming”, when they get to see it. But really it’s too late to change the course of an election. It’s too late to change the outcome.
 In fact, there is still plenty of time to certify the correct winner of the election and that’s what we’re fighting to do. But no matter when it happens, when they see fraud, when they see false votes and when those votes number far more than is necessary, you can’t let another person steal that election from you. All over the country, people are together in holding up signs, “Stop the steal.” To understand how we will challenge this fraud, it is important to know the problems with mail-in balloting. Pennsylvania, Michigan, Nevada, Georgia, Arizona, and most other states allowed anyone to get an absentee ballot and cast their vote without showing any ID. The voting took place entirely on the honor system, no identification of any kind was required.
 Most Americans would also be shocked to learn that no state in the country verifies United States citizenship as a condition for voting in federal elections. This is a national disgrace. No other advanced country conducts elections this way. Many European countries have instituted major restrictions on mail-in voting, specifically, because they recognize the nearly unlimited potential for fraud. Out of 42 European nations, all but two prohibit absentee ballots entirely for people who reside inside the country, or else they require those who need absentee ballots to show a very, very powerful ID.
 Throughout the Democrat effort to dramatically expand mail-in voting, the Democrat party leaders were also, feverishly working to block measures, designed to protect against fraud, such as signature verification, residency verification, or voter ID. And citizenship confirmation was almost unthought of that we should ask for it. Can you believe this? These are not the actions of people who want fair elections. These are the actions of people who want to steal elections, who are willing to create fraud. The only conceivable reason why you would block common sense measures to verify legal eligibility for voting, is you are trying to encourage, enable, solicit, or carry out fraud.
 It is important for Americans to understand that these destructive changes to our election laws were not a necessary response to the pandemic. The pandemic simply gave the Democrats an excuse to do what they have been trying to do for many, many years. In fact, the very first bill that house Democrats introduced when Nancy Pelosi became speaker, was it attempt to mandate universal mail-in voting and eliminate measures such as voter ID, which is so necessary. Dramatically eroding the integrity of our elections was the Democrats number one priority for a simple reason, they wanted to steal the 2020 presidential election. All of the Democrat efforts to expand mail-in balloting laid the groundwork for the systematic and pervasive fraud that occurred in this election.
 In Pennsylvania, large amounts of mail-in and absentee ballots were processed illegally. And in secret, in Philadelphia, in Allegheny counties, without our observers present. They were not allowed to be present. In fact, they weren’t even allowed in the same room. They were thrown out of the building and they looked from outside in, but they had no way of even seeing, because there were no windows. And the windows that were there were boarded up. Democrats even went to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court to block observers from receiving access. There is only one possible reason that the corrupt Democrat political machine would oppose transparency during the vote counting. It’s because they know they are hiding illegal activity. It’s very simple.
 This is an egregious, inexcusable. And irreversible harm that stains the entire election, yet this unprecedented practice of excluding our observers, our vote watchers, as some people call them, occurred in Democrat run cities and key states all across the nation. Here are just some of the additional facts that we’ve uncovered. Many voters all across Pennsylvania received two ballots in the mail, and many others received mail-in ballots for which they never applied. So many get ballots, they didn’t even know what they were for. And again, so many received more than one ballot. In some cases, more than two ballots. And they happened to be, for the most part, Democrats.
 In Fayette County, Pennsylvania, multiple voters received ballots that were already filled out. They didn’t know what happened. In Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, a poll watcher, overheard unregistered voters being told to return later to try to vote under a different name. Tens of thousands of voters across Pennsylvania were treated differently based on whether they were Republicans, or Democrats. Voters who submitted floored ballots in some Democrat precincts were notified and asked to fix their ballots, while Republican precincts, and in particular Republican voters, were not so notified which plainly violates the Equal Protection Clause of the United States Constitution.”If you are a Democrat, we’re going to fix up your ballot. make sure it’s perfect. If you are Republican, don’t even talk about it.”
 In Michigan, a career employee of the city of Detroit, with the city workers, coaching voters to vote straight Democrat, while accompanying them to watch who they were voting for, violating the law and the sanctity of the secret ballot. You can’t do that. The same workers say she was instructed not to ask for any ID and not to attempt to validate any signatures. She was also told to illegally backdate ballots, many, many ballots, received after the deadline. This is something that is so unconstitutional and she estimates that thousands and thousands of ballots were improperly backdated by her and many others.
 Other witnesses in Detroit also saw our election officials counting batches of the same ballots many times, as well as illegally duplicating ballots. One observer testified to seeing boxes and boxes of ballots, all bearing the same signature. Another observer in Detroit gave sworn testimony that he saw countless and valid ballots that did not belong to properly registered voters and then witnessed election workers in Wayne County entering fake birth dates into the system, in order to illegally count them. Witnesses of science wore an affidavit, so in other words, you go to jail if you lie, testifying that after election officials announced the last absentee votes had been received, a batch of tens of thousands of ballots arrived, many without envelopes, all voting for Democrats.
 In Wisconsin, a record number of voters were categorized as indefinitely confined. A status reserved for severely disabled individuals, also for the elderly that allow them to vote without showing ID. Last year, approximately 70,000 people claimed this status statewide. This year, the number miraculously was nearly 250,000 voters, after election officials in Milwaukee and Dane County, a couple of the most corrupt political places in our country, urged citizens to improperly register under this status. And register they did in levels that don’t exist. In Wisconsin, there are approximately 70,000 absentee ballots that do not have matching ballot applications as required by law in Georgia, nine observers have testified to seeing countless irregular ballots without…
 Testified to seeing countless irregular ballots without the creases or typical markings indicating that the ballots did not arrive in envelopes as required. A poll watcher in Fulton County estimated that approximately 98% of the large number of unusually pristine ballots that she witnessed were for Biden. Highly unusual number. In addition, thousands of uncounted ballots were discovered in Floyd, Fayette, and Walton counties weeks after the election, and these ballots were mostly from Trump voters. They weren’t counted. They were from Trump voters.
 In Detroit, everybody saw the tremendous conflict and the horrible way that the two Republican canvassers were treated so horribly because they wouldn’t vote when they saw that 71% of the precincts didn’t balance. Also, there were more votes than there were voters. Think of that. You had more votes than you had voters. That’s an easy one to figure, and it’s by the thousands. In Arizona, in-person voters whose balanced produced error messages from tabulation machines were told to press a button that resulted in their votes not being counted. Also in Arizona, the attorney general announced that mail-in ballots had been stolen from mailboxes and hidden under a rock.
 In Clark County, Nevada, where most of the state’s voters reside, the standards for matching a signature using the signature verification machine were intentionally lowered to allow large numbers of ballots to be counted that otherwise would never have passed muster. This machine was set at the lowest level. According to one report, in order to test the process, nine voters in Clark County cast ballots with intentionally incorrect signatures, and eight of the nine ballots were accepted and counted. They said you could sign your name as Santa Claus, and it would be accepted. Last week, the Clark County Commission threw out the results of a local election after the registrar reported finding, quote, “discrepancies that we can’t explain.” Also in Nevada, some voters were entered into a raffle for more than a dozen gift cards worth as much as $250 if they could prove they had voted.
 This took place on Indian reservations. One of the most significant indications of widespread fraud is the extraordinarily low rejection rates for mail-in ballots in many key states. These are the states that I had to win. In swing state after swing state, the number of ballots rejected has been dramatically lower than what would have been expected based on prior experience. That means years and years of voting. In Georgia, just 0.2%, that’s substantially less than 1%, of mail-in ballots have been rejected. In other words, almost none have been rejected. They took everything. Nothing was rejected, practically, compared to 6.4% in 2016. There are those that think that 6.4 was a low number.
 Think of it. Almost none were rejected. The previous election, 6.4% were rejected. We have seen similar declines in Pennsylvania, Nevada, and Michigan. Ballots weren’t rejected, especially if they happen to be in Democrat areas. These irregularities are inexplicable unless there is a deliberate effort to accept ineligible ballots or fraudulent ballots.
 In Pennsylvania, the secretary of state and the state supreme court in essence abolished signature verification requirements just weeks prior to the election, in violation of state law. You’re not allowed to do that. It has to be approved by the legislature. A judge can’t do it. A state can’t do it. An official can’t do it. The only one that can do it is the legislature.
 The reason for this is clear. They were not verifying signatures because they know the ballots have not been filled out by the voters in whose names they were cast. In other words, people filled them out that had nothing to do with the names on the ballot. A simple recount of the ballots under these circumstances only compounds the fraud. The only way to determine whether there was an honest vote is to conduct a full review of the envelopes in the relevant states. You will find that many of them, tens of thousands, have fraudulent signatures. A full forensic audit is required to ensure that only legal ballots from lawfully registered voters that were properly cast are included in the final count.
 This election is about great voter fraud, fraud that has never been seen like this before. It’s about poll watchers who were not allowed to watch. So illegal. It’s about ballots that poured in, and nobody but a few knew where they came from. They were counted, and they weren’t for me. It’s about big leads on election night, tremendous leads, leads where I was being congratulated for a decisive easy victory. All of a sudden, by morning or a couple of days later, those leads rapidly evaporated. It’s about numbers of ballots that were sent that nobody know where they came from. It’s about machinery that was defective, machinery that was stopped during certain parts of the evening, miraculously to open with more votes.
 It was about many other things, but above all, it was about fraud. This election was rigged. Everybody knows it. I don’t mind if I lose an election, but I want to lose an election fair and square. What I don’t want to do is have it stolen from the American people. That’s what we’re fighting for. We have no choice to be doing that. We already have the proof. We already have the evidence, and it’s very clear. Many people in the media and even judges so far have refused to accept it. They know it’s true. They know it’s there. They know who won the election, but they refuse to say, “You’re right.” Our country needs somebody to say, “You’re right.”
 Ultimately, I am prepared to accept any accurate election result, and I hope that Joe Biden is as well. We already have the proof. We already have tens of thousands of ballots more than we need to overturn all of these states that we’re talking about. This is an election for the highest office in the greatest country in the history of the world. Every reasonable American should be able to agree, based on what we have already documented, that we need a systematic analysis of the mail-in ballots to review the envelopes. It’s about the signature. If they’re on the envelopes, we can only review the envelopes, and that will tell us everything.
 This is the absolute minimum we should expect. This is not just about my campaign, although it has a lot to do with who’s going to be your next president. This is about restoring faith and confidence in American elections. This is about our democracy and the sacred rights that generations of Americans have fought, bled, and died to secure. Nothing is more urgent or more important. The only ballots that should count in this election are those cast by eligible voters who are citizens of our country, residents of the states in which they voted, and who cast their ballots in a lawful manner before the legal deadline.
 Moreover, we must never again have an election in which there is not a reliable and transparent system to verify the eligibility, identity, and residency of every single person who casts a ballot, a very, very cherished ballot. Many very smart people have congratulated me on all we’ve done: the biggest tax cuts in history, regulation cuts, the biggest in history. We rebuilt our military. We took care of our vets like never before, Space Force, and so much more. Then they went on to say, as big and as important as these events were, the single greatest achievement in your presidency will be exactly what you’re doing right now: voter integrity for our nation. It’s more important than any of the things that we discussed.
 If we don’t root out the fraud, the tremendous and horrible fraud that’s taken place in our 2020 election, we don’t have a country anymore. With the resolve and support of the American people, we will restore honesty and integrity to our elections. We will restore trust in our system of government. Thank you. God bless you. God bless America.
 Thank you very much. I’ve been watching the hearing on OAN and saw it on a couple of other great networks, but I really appreciate being asked to speak. I’m in the Oval Office right now, and it’s very interesting to see what’s going on. This was an election that we won easily. We won it by a lot. Big energy.
 An official was on this morning on a important show and said, “There’s no way Trump didn’t win Pennsylvania, because the energy industry was all for him. I saw with my eyes what happened,” and he told me horror stories, absolute horror stories. So this was, very sad to say it, this election was rigged and we can’t let that happen. We can’t let it happen for our country. And this election has to be turned around, because we won Pennsylvania by a lot. And we won all of these swing States by a lot.
 Anybody watching television the night of the election was saying, “Wow.” I was called by the biggest political people. Congratulations, sir, on a big win. And all of a sudden ballots were dumped all over the place, and a lot of horrible things happened and everybody in that room, I want to thank all of the people that signed affidavits and all of the speakers. You fantastic people. You’re great Patriots.
 I want to thank the senators for being there. And it’s so important, day before Thanksgiving, it really represents somebody. Between the voter suppression and all of the horrible things that happened to poll watchers. We have poll watcher affidavits piled up to the ceiling. They’re all over. They were treated horribly all over, all of these swing States, I mean virtually all of the swing States, and many other things were happening that were horrible, just horrible.
 But the poll watchers weren’t allowed to watch. They were in many cases, whisked out of the room. Not only into pens that were 20, 30, 40, 60, 100 feet away where you couldn’t even see. They were using binoculars. People are reporting that they had to use binoculars, and that didn’t work. If you were a Republican poll watcher, you were treated like a dog and the Democrats had no problem, but they were rough.
 They were literally pushed out, and it was rough tactics. This is what happened here. This is not the United States of America what happened, and I think everybody knows that. That’s why you’re there, and that’s why you’re so vehement about it. We have many, many cases, many, many cases of people walking in, an elderly woman walks in looking forward to voting November 3rd and says, “Oh good. Where would I go about voting?”
 “I’m sorry. You’ve already voted. Your ballot is in.” They said, “No, I didn’t vote. I didn’t vote.”
 “No, your ballot is in. You’ve already voted.” In all cases for Biden, by the way. She said, “No, no, I want to vote.”
 Nope, your ballot is in.” And then they give her a provisional ballot to sign, which goes nowhere. It’s a disgrace that this is happening to our country. We won this election by a lot. We got 74 million votes. And if you would have said 74 million votes the day before the election, every single professional in the business would have said, there’s no way of beating that. We got 11 million votes more than we had four years before in 2016, and we got many votes more than Ronald Reagan had when he won 49 States, that nobody would’ve said we even had a chance of losing. And all you had to do is take a look at the numbers at 10 o’clock in the evening when everybody thought the election was virtually over, and then very weird things happened.
 But they’re not weird to professionals, and they’re not weird to Dominion and other people that operate machines. And they’re not weird to the people that handle the ballots where they were flooding the market. People were getting two and three and four ballots in their home. People that were dead were signing up for ballots. Not only were they coming in and putting in a ballot, but dead people were requesting ballots and they were dead for years, and they were requesting ballots.
 The whole world is watching us. The whole world is watching the United States of America and we can’t let them get away with it. And we have judges that are afraid to make a decision. We have judges that don’t want to do the same thing. A very good lawyer said, “Well, sir, I mean, that’s a big statement for a judge to overthrow an election.” I said, “Really? If he got hundreds of thousands of votes more than he was entitled to get through all of the things that I’m listening to right now, and you’re just covering a few of them, we have hundreds and hundreds of affidavits of stories that are even worse than the stories I’m hearing. Why wouldn’t they overturn an election?”
 Certainly overturn it in your state, because we have other States that are just as bad. If you look at Michigan with Detroit, you look at the things that happened in Detroit where you have a voter, but you have more votes than you have voters. You take a look at Detroit, Michigan, you have more votes than you have voters. Then you have two people that don’t want to certify. They don’t want to certify, and they’re harassed violently. And they turned off the cameras during the harassment for two hours. Then they said, “Wow.” And they were afraid and they voted. Then they went back to sign and they couldn’t do it because they said, “We can’t do it because this is corrupt. This is horrible what’s taken place.”
 Think of it, more votes than you have voters, but that was the least of it. They have things that were as bad as that. And this is going on all over, all over. We’re doing very well in a lot of States, a lot of good things are happening in Georgia. We’re getting little help from government, but a lot of good things happening in Georgia, Wisconsin, and Michigan. They’re seeing what happened in Detroit. And we sure are looking at what’s happening in Pennsylvania and Philadelphia.
 What happened in Philadelphia, they keep the poll watches not only in pens, but they keep them out of the building. And the only reason they got back into the building was they got a court order. Then the definition of back into the building was very far away where they couldn’t see anything. And they talk about closed circuit television, except you couldn’t see it because the picture was so unclear you didn’t even know what they were doing. They could have been playing a baseball game. So it’s a very sad thing for our country to have this.
 They have to turn over the results. It would be easy for me to say, “Oh, let’s worry about four years from now.” No, this election was lost by the Democrats. They cheated. It was a fraudulent election. They flooded the market. The defrauded everybody with ballots.
 I just want to thank everybody for being there. You’re doing a tremendous service. This is a very important moment in the history of our country, and you’re doing a tremendous service to our country, and don’t worry about bravery because the people that talk the most, they’re not the ones you have to worry about. And these are all talkers, they intimidate, but these are not people that you’re going to ultimately have to … They push you around. They pushed our poll workers out. Our poll watchers were pushed out of the building. Some got back in, they were put into pens, but these are not people …
 Don’t be intimidated by these people, but they’re bad people. They’re horrible people, and they’re people that don’t love our country. So we don’t have to worry about four years right now, we have to worry about what happened on November 3rd and previous to November 3rd. And by the way, after November 3rd, when people put votes in and they put them in illegally, they put them in after the polls closed. And one of our great Supreme Court Justices made mention of that. And I can’t imagine that any Justice or anybody looking at it could be thrilled when they vote after the election is over.
 So I want to thank everybody very much for being there. I want to thank the state Senate, respected people, tremendous people. And you’re doing a tremendous service for our country. If something was done wrong, if this election was won fraudulently, and that’s what happened, it was a fraud. And we’re talking about, very importantly, many more ballots, many more votes than the number we need.
 In other words, if we needed 50,000 votes, we’re not talking about we found nine dead people that voted. Of course, there were many more than that, numbers that nobody even believes. No, we’re talking about numbers that are far in excess of the 50,000. Far in excess in another state where we lost by 10,000, and they went absolutely wild because we got far more votes than they thought possible. And they’ve just stepped on the gas. And they got caught, just like they got caught spying on my campaign. They got caught exactly. They got caught doing this.
 So I really appreciate it. And the country appreciates it, and we have to turn the election over because there’s no doubt. We have all the evidence. We have all the affidavits. We have everything. All we need is to have some judge listen to it properly without having a political opinion or having another kind of a problem, because we have everything. And by the way, the evidence is pouring in now as we speak.
 And I want to thank Rudy Giuliani for having the courage to do this. There were a lot of lawyers that backed down because they were being screamed at. Rudy is the greatest Mayor in the history of New York, and there’s a reason. He’s got great courage and he doesn’t care. He wants to do what’s right. And I told him the other day, “Rudy, you were the greatest Mayor in the history of New York,” and you see what happened to New York without Rudy. “You were the greatest Mayor, but this is more important. What you are doing now is far more important than being a great Mayor of the city of New York and being its greatest Mayor by far.” By the way, by far. “This is going to be your crowning achievement, because you’re saving our country.” Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. This is a very big announcement. The biggest ever concerning drugs and drug pricing. So today, I have to tell you it’s a great honor for me to announce that my administration is issuing two groundbreaking rules to very dramatically lower the price of prescription drugs for the American people. Especially for our cherish seniors. We’re pleased to be joined on this occasion by Secretary of Health and Human Services, Alex Azar, an administrator of Center for Medicare, Medicaid Services, Seema Verma. Thank you both. Thank you both. And thank you all for being here. Appreciate it.
 The unprecedented reforms we’re completing today are the direct result of the historic drug pricing executive orders I signed in July. Statutorily, we had to go through a very long process, and we got it done. I was very proud to have gotten this done. We were pushing it very hard, as we did with the vaccines and other things.
 The first action will save American seniors billions of dollars by preventing middlemen, famous middleman they call them, from ripping off Medicare patients with high prescription prices. Currently, drug companies provide large discounts on the price of prescription medicines, including nearly $40 billion in rebates to Medicare part D plans last year alone. Yet often, middlemen stop those discounts from going to the patients, which is what we’re interested in and not the middlemen, who need it the most. So the patients are going to be now getting the benefit, instead of these very wealthy individuals. Patients pay very high prices. And they have for many years, although we brought it down. Now, first time in 51 years with the cost adding up to hundreds or even thousands of dollars per year per patient. Today’s action ends this injustice and requires that these discounts go directly to people. These are the people that need it.
 This will save patients up to 30%, could be 40%, could be 50%, could be much higher than that. These are numbers that nobody’s ever even contemplated. And that doesn’t include life-saving drugs like insulin, which will be even higher. Insulin was destroying lives and destroying families because the cost was so high. And now, it’s at a level that nobody can even believe. Is that correct, Seema?
 $35 a month from many times that number.
 The second rule, we’re finalizing today will transform the way the US government pays for drugs to end global freeloading on the backs of American citizens and American patients. Until now, Americans have often been charged more than twice as much for the exact same drugs as other medically advanced countries. We would be having a drug, identical drug, same company, and we’d pay many times the price of what that drug would sell for in certain countries. In case after case, our citizens pay massively higher prices and other nations pay for the same exact pill from the same factory. Effectively, subsidizing socialism abroad with skyrocketing prices at home. So we would spend tremendous amounts of money in order to provide inexpensive drugs to another country. And when I say the price is different, you can see some examples where the price is beyond anything, four times, five times different. For example, Medicare part B recipients are forced to spend five times more for a common breast cancer medication than patients in other countries, so five times more. And we have other examples that are substantially higher than that.
 To address this unfairness and to lower prices for Americans, we’re finalizing the Most Favored Nation Rule. Remember that name, Most Favored Nation Rule. Nobody’s ever done this. The drug companies don’t like me too much, but we had to do it. It took it a long time before we were able to do this because statutorily, we had to go through a process. But there will never be anything like this. I just hope they keep it. I hope they have the courage to keep it because the powerful drug lobby, big pharma is putting pressure on people, like you wouldn’t believe. Medicare will now look at the price that other developed nations pay for their drugs. And instead of paying the highest price on the list, and we are substantially higher than any other country in the world, we will pay the lowest price. In other words, we take the lowest price and we match whatever the lowest price is. Leading to colossal savings for all Americans. And we’re talking about savings of 50, 60, 70%, 80%, different drugs, different prices.
 In addition, today, we’re taking one more historic action to hold down drug prices. In the past, drug companies have been allowed to identify certain very old generic drugs, that have been widely available for decades and exploited a misguided program called Unapproved Drugs Initiative. That’s Unapproved Drugs Initiative, a program that has been around for a long time, and hasn’t been too good the people that were supposed to benefit. To obtain market exclusivity on these medicines, so we are doing something that nobody thought anybody would do. The savings is going to be incredible. Then they’ve jacked up the prices by as much as 1000 to 5000% on this product. This program has also caused shortages of important medicines. Today, I’m announcing that we are ending the Unapproved Drugs Initiative program to stop this unfair practice. So prices are lifted by 1000% to 5000%. In one or two cases, even more than that. And we’re ending this, we are putting an end to it.
 Together these reforms will save American patients, many, many billions of dollars every single year. For generations, the American people have been abused by big pharma and their army of lawyers, lobbyists, and bought and paid for politicians. But I’ve been loyal to the special interests. I’ve been loyal to our patients and our people that need drugs, prescription drugs, and devoted myself to completely fighting for the American people. You’ll see that this is not an easy thing to do. Big pharma ran millions of dollars of negative advertisements against me during the campaign, which I won, by the way. But we’ll find that out. Almost 74 million votes. We had big pharma against us. We had the media against us. We had big tech against us. We had a lot of dishonesty against us. But big pharma alone ran millions and millions of dollars in ads. In fact, I looked at it and I said, who is it? I’ve never seen anything quite like it.
 Because I told them I’m going to have to do this. I was put here to do it job. And Pfizer and others were way ahead on vaccines. You wouldn’t have a vaccine, if it weren’t for me for another four years. Because FDA would have never been able to do what they did, what I forced them to do. And Pfizer and others even decided to not assess the results of their vaccine. In other words, not come out with a vaccine until just after the election. That’s because of what I did with favorite nations and these other elements. Instead of their original plan to assess the data in October. So they were going to come out in October. But they decided to delay it because of what I’m doing, which is fine with me because frankly, this is just a very big thing, a very big thing. What I’m doing here. I don’t know if anyone’s going to appreciate it. These people can’t even believe it, Alex, even you can’t believe it. Can you? Look at you.
 So they waited and waited and waited, and they thought they could come out with it a few days after the election. And it would have probably had an impact. Who knows? Maybe it wouldn’t have. I’m sure they would’ve found the ballot someplace, the Democrats and the group. These corrupt games will not deter us from doing what is right for the American people. And I will always put American patients first. And I think it can never be shown better than what I’m doing today. Already, we successfully lowered drug prices for the first time in 51 years. In September, we finalized a rule allowing states, wholesalers, and pharmacies to safely and legally import drugs from Canada. Career politicians have promised to institute this reform for decades. But we got it done.
 The reason Canada… And this is going to be, I think, just a short term fix because until we have the Favored Nations fully ready, which we hope to be in January 1st… I think a very important thing to say January 1st, it’s right around the corner. But I’m giving governors the right to go to Canada because they’ll pay approximately 50% less for their drugs that they buy for their states. So the governors buying drugs for their states, go to Canada. They buy the drugs for very, very much less. And they’ll be able to pass that on to the people of Florida. Ron DeSantis was the first one to ask. But others are asking also. And it’s a great thing. You’ll save 50%. They’re going to buy a lot from Canada initially. And I think ultimately, they’ll be comparing prices. You’ll get the lowest price anywhere in the world. So you won’t need to buy from Canada.
 In a few weeks, my administration will also finalize rules requiring federally funded health centers to pass drug company discounts and insulin and EpiPens directly to patients. And the EpiPen prices come way down. We remember those horrible stories about EpiPen. Well, the price has now come way, way, way down. We kept insulin costs for many seniors at just $35 a month. As I said, saving them an average of nearly $500 to a thousand dollars a year, just on insulin, saving a thousand dollars a year on insulin. Since I took office, we’ve reduced Medicare part D premiums by 12%, putting nearly $2 billion back into seniors pockets. Now, 12% is great by any standard, but 12% is peanuts compared to what we’ve done with Favorite Nations. I think it’s probably the biggest story that we’ve ever had relative to drug prices. There’s never been anything like this. This is something that has been talked about for many years. But nobody had the courage to do it because of the power of big pharma.
 We ended the Gag clauses that prevented pharmacists from telling patients how to buy less expensive drugs. As you know, pharmacists could not talk to patients about how to buy drugs. How about that one? Think that’s right? And now they can and should. We approved a record number of affordable generic drugs for three years in a row. And we put a very heavy emphasis on generic drugs. And the pricing there has become very good, but that pricing will also go down very substantially. No administration has ever fought harder or achieved more for our patients and for our seniors, but for America, when you think of it, for America. Because other countries were paying a fraction of what we were paying. In some cases, a small fraction. The numbers were just staggering. The difference between going to… I won’t name nations, but I could name five of them, right off the top of my head. That it is so incredible to think about for years what was happening. We’ve been working on this for two years. Statutorily, we had to go through a process. But when you think that our nation for the exact same pill out of the exact same box, often made in the exact same factory, same company, and you take a look at the cost was so much more, many, many times more.
 In four short years, we’ve instituted the most dramatic series of drug pricing reforms in decades. And you’ll see that it all comes to fruition right now, starting in January 1st. And the American people benefit from our actions for many, many decades. And it should be very immediate. Now, I presume they’ll sue, but it’s a suit that they should never be able to win. They should never ever be able to win. So now, I’d like to ask Secretary Azar to provide some more details as to the action. And then, Seema, I’d like to have you come up and say a few words. And great job. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 Go ahead, [inaudible 00:15:46].
 Thank you, [inaudible 00:19:43]. Thank you. [inaudible 00:19:42].
 Thank you, [inaudible 00:23:43]. Take care. You did good Alex. Thank you everybody.
 Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good evening. I’d like to provide the American people with an update on our efforts to protect the integrity of our very important 2020 election. If you count the legal votes, I easily win. If you count the illegal votes, they can try to steal the election from us. If you count the votes that came in late, we’re looking to them very strongly, but a lot of votes came in late.
 I’ve already decisively won many critical states, including massive victories in Florida, Iowa, Indiana, Ohio, to name just a few. We won these and many other victories despite historic election interference from big media, big money, and big tech. As everybody saw, we won by historic numbers, and the pollsters got it knowingly wrong. They got it knowingly wrong. We had polls that were so ridiculous and everybody knew it at the time.
 There was no blue wave that they predicted. They thought there was going to be a big blue wave. That was false. That was done for suppression reasons. But instead there was a big red wave, and it’s been properly acknowledged actually by the media. They were, I think, very impressed, but that was after the fact. That doesn’t do us any good.
 We kept the Senate despite having twice as many seats to defend as Democrats, and in a really much more competitive states. We did a fantastic job with the Senate. I think we’re very proud of what’s happened there. We had many more seats to defend. They spent almost $200 million on Senate races in South Carolina and Kentucky alone, two races, and hundreds of millions of dollars overall against us.
 At the national level, our opponents major donors were Wall Street bankers and special interests. Our major donors were police officers, farmers, everyday citizens. Yet for the first time ever, we lost zero races in the House. I was talking to Kevin McCarthy today. He said he couldn’t believe it. Zero racist, very unusual thing, zero, and actually won many new seats with, I think, many more on the way.
 This was also the year of the Republican woman. More Republican women were elected to Congress than ever before. That’s a great achievement. I won the largest share of non-white voters of any Republican in 60 years, including historic numbers of Latino, African American, Asian American, and Native American voters. The largest ever in our history. We grew our party by 4 million voters. The greatest turnout in Republican Party history.
 Democrats are the party of the big donors. The big media, the big tech, it seems, and Republicans have become the party of the American worker, and that’s what’s happened. And we’re also, I believe the party of inclusion. As everyone now recognizes, media polling was election interference in the truest sense of that word, by powerful special interests.
 These really phony polls, I have to call them phony polls, fake polls, were designed to keep our voters at home, create the illusion of momentum for Mr. Biden and diminish Republican’s ability to raise funds. They were what’s called suppression polls, everyone knows that now, and it’s never been used to the extent that it’s been used on this last election.
 To highlight just a few examples, the day before election, Quinnipiac, which was wrong on every occasion that I know of, had Joe Biden up by five points in Florida, and they were off by 8.4 points and I won Florida easily, easily. So they had me losing Florida by a lot and I ended up winning Florida by a lot. Other than that, they were very accurate.
 They had him up four points in Ohio and they were off by 12.2 points, and I also won Ohio, great state of Ohio very easily. And the Washington Post said, “Biden up 17 points in Wisconsin,” and it was basically even. They were off by about 17 points, and they knew that, they’re not stupid people. They knew that. Suppression.
 There are now only a few states yet to be decided in the presidential race. The voting apparatus of those states are run in all cases by Democrats. We were winning in all the key locations by a lot, actually, and then our numbers started miraculously getting whittled away in secret and they wouldn’t allow legally permissible observers.
 We went to court in a couple of instances and we were able to get the observers put in. And when the observers got there, they wanted them 60, 70 feet away, 80 feet, 100 feet away or outside the building to observe people inside the building. And we won a case, a big case, and we have others happening.
 There are lots of litigation, even beyond our litigation. There’s a tremendous amount of litigation generally because of how unfair this process was, and I predicted that. I’ve been talking about mail-in voting for a long time. It’s really destroyed our system. It’s a corrupt system and it makes people corrupt, even if they aren’t by nature, but they become corrupt. It’s too easy. They want to find out how many votes they need, and then they seem to be able to find them. They wait and wait, and then they find them, and you see that on Election Night.
 We were ahead in vote in North Carolina by a lot, a tremendous number of votes, and we’re still ahead by a lot, but not as many because they’re finding ballots all of a sudden. “Oh, we have some mail-in ballots.” It’s amazing how those mail-in ballots are so one-sided too. I know that it’s supposed to be to the advantage of the Democrats, but in all cases they’re so one-sided.
 We were up by nearly 700,000 votes in Pennsylvania. I won Pennsylvania by a lot. And that gets whittled down to, I think they said now we’re up by 90,000 votes and they’ll keep coming and coming and coming. They find them all over and they don’t want us to have any observers. Although we won a court case, the judge said, “You have to have observers.” Likewise in Georgia … And they’re appealing, actually they’re appealing. We want a case that we want people to watch and we want to observers and they’re actually appealing, which is sort of interesting. I wonder why they’d appeal? All we want to do is have people watch as they do the vote tabulations.
 Likewise in Georgia, I won by a lot, a lot, with a lead of over getting close to 300,000 votes on Election Night in Georgia. And by the way, got whittled down and now it’s getting to be to a point where I’ll go from winning by a lot to perhaps being even down a little bit.
 In Georgia, a pipe burst in a far away location, totally unrelated to the location of what was happening and they stopped counting for four hours. And a lot of things happened. The election apparatus in Georgia is run by Democrats. We also had margins of 300,000 in Michigan. We were way up in Michigan, won the state. And in Wisconsin, we did likewise fantastically well, and that got whittled down. In every case, they got whittled down.
 Today, we’re on track to win Arizona. We only need to carry, I guess, 55% of the remaining vote, 55% margins, and that’s a margin that we’ve significantly exceeded. So we’ll see what happens with that, but we’re on track to do okay in Arizona. Our goal is to defend the integrity of the election. We’ll not allow the corruption to steal such an important election, or any election for that manner. And we can’t allow silence, anybody to silence our voters and manufacture results.
 I’ve never had, I’ve been doing a lot of public things for a long time, I’ve never had anything that’s been as inspirational by people calling, talking, sending things to us. I’ve never seen such love and such affection and such spirit as I’ve seen for this. People know what’s happening and they see what’s happening and just before their eyes, and there are many instances which will be reported very shortly.
 There’s tremendous litigation going on, and this is a case where they’re trying to steal an election. They’re trying to rig an election and we can’t let that happen. Detroit and Philadelphia, known as two of the most corrupt political places anywhere in our country easily, cannot be responsible for engineering the outcome of a presidential race, a very important presidential race.
 In Pennsylvania, Democrats have gone to the State Supreme Court to try and ban our election observers and very strongly. Now we won the case, but they’re going forward. They don’t want anybody in there. They don’t want anybody watching them as they count the ballots, and I can’t imagine why. There’s absolutely no legitimate reason why they would not want to have people watching this process, because if it’s straight, they should be proud of it. Instead, they’re trying obviously to commit fraud. There’s no question about that.
 In Philadelphia, observers have been kept far away, very far away. So far that people are using binoculars to try and see, and there’s been tremendous problems caused. They put a paper on all of the windows so you can’t see in, and the people that are banned are very unhappy and become somewhat violent.
 The Eleventh Circuit ruled that in Georgia, the votes have been in by Election Day, that they should be in by Election Day, and they weren’t. Votes are coming in after Election Day. And they had a ruling already that you have to have the votes in by Election Day. To the best of my knowledge, votes should be in by Election Day, and they didn’t do that. Democrat officials never believed they could win this election honestly, I really believe that. That’s why they did the mail-in ballots, where there’s tremendous corruption and fraud going on.
 That’s why they mailed out tens of millions of unsolicited ballots without any verification measures whatsoever, and I’ve told everybody that these things would happen because I’ve seen it happen. I watched a lot of different elections before they decided to go with this big, massive election with tens of millions of ballots going out to everybody. In many cases, totally unsolicited.
 This was unprecedented in American history. This was by design. Despite years of claiming to care about the election security, they refuse to include any requirement to verify signatures, identities, or even determined whether they’re eligible or ineligible to vote. People are walking in there, they have no idea. They just take in the numbers. They’re writing down things, the workers, and doing a lot of bad things. And we have a lot of information coming and litigation that you’ll see that will shake even you people up, and you’ve seen it all.
 The officials overseeing the counting in Pennsylvania and other key states are all part of a corrupt Democrat machine that you’ve written about. And for a long time, you’ve been writing about the corrupt Democrat machine. I went to school there and I know a lot about it. It hasn’t changed since a long time ago and hasn’t changed. It has gotten worse.
 In Pennsylvania, partisan Democrats have allowed ballots in the state to be received three days after the election, and we think much more than that, and they’re counting those without even postmarks or any identification whatsoever. So you don’t have postmarks, you don’t have identification.
 There have been a number of disturbing irregularities across the nation. Our campaign has been denied access to observe any counting in Detroit. Detroit is another place, and I wouldn’t say has the best reputation for election integrity. Poll workers in Michigan were duplicating ballots. But when our observers attempted to challenge the activity, those poll workers jumped in front of the volunteers to block their views so that they couldn’t see what they were doing and it became a little bit dangerous.
 One major hub for counting ballots in Detroit covered up the windows again with large pieces of cardboard, and so they wanted to protect and block the counting area. They didn’t want anybody seeing the counting, even though these were observers who were legal observers that were supposed to be there.
 In Detroit, there were hours of unexplained delay in delivering many of the votes for counting. The final batch did not arrive until 4:00 in the morning. And even though the polls closed at 8:00 o’clock, so they brought it in and the batches came in and nobody knew where they came from.
 We’ve also been denied access to observe in critical places in Georgia. In multiple swing states, counting was halted for hours and hours on Election Night. With results withheld from major Democrat run locations only to appear later, and they certainly appeared and they all had the name Biden on them, or just about all. I think almost all. They all had the name Biden on them, which is a little strange.
 I challenge Joe and every Democrat to clarify that they only want legal votes because they talk about votes and I think they should use the word legal, legal votes. We want every legal vote counted, and I want every legal vote counted. We want openness and transparency, no secret count rooms, no mystery ballots, no illegal votes being cast after Election Day. You have Election Day and the laws are very strong on that. You have an Election Day and they don’t want votes cast after Election Day and they want the process to be an honest one. It’s so important.
 We want an honest election and we want an honest count and we want honest people working back there because it’s a very important job. So that’s the way this country is going to win. That’s the way the United States will win, and we think we will win the election very easily. We think there’s going to be a lot of litigation because we have so much evidence, so much proof, and it’s going to end up perhaps at the highest court in the land, we’ll see. But we think there’ll be a lot of litigation because we can’t have an election stolen by like this.
 And I tell you, He trum Small elections were a disaster. Small, very easy to handle elections were disastrous. This is a large scale version, and it’s getting worse and worse every day. We’re hearing stories that are horror stories, absolute horror stories, and we can’t let that happen to the United States of America.
 It’s not a question of who wins, Republican, Democrat, Joe, myself. We can’t let that happen to our country. We can’t be disgraced by having something like this happen. So it will be hopefully cleared up. Maybe soon, I hope soon, but it’ll probably go through a process, a legal process. And as you know, I’ve claimed certain states and he’s claiming states and we can both claim the States, but ultimately I have a feeling judges are going to have to rule. But there’s been a lot of shenanigans and we can’t stand for that in our country. Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much and hello, Kenosha. It’s nice to be back. It’s nice to be back. We spent a little time with you, a little law and order. We brought law and order to Kenosha. Right? That’s what we want. And hello, Wisconsin. Big day, tomorrow, big, big day, big day. And I think we’re going to do very well in Wisconsin just like we did four years ago. And it’s an honor to be with you. Thank you.
 And this is a lot of people. This is a lot of people. See, you know what that means? That means we don’t have to pay for the microphones because they did a bad job. Tomorrow, we are going to win this state and we are going to win four more years in the White House. And with your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our police, support our great military, protect your second amendment. It’s under siege, but don’t worry about it, unless sleepy Joe got in, then you can forget about your second amendment, defend religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA.
 Next year we will be, and you know, we’re going to be together next year. We’re going to be together for four more years and we’re going to be together forever because we’re doing things that nobody’s ever done and we’re doing them together. And it was my pleasure to be with you a number of months ago when you were in the news, right? You were in the news.
 Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. And I hope you can hear. Can you hear it back there by the way?
 Yes, no?
 Hold it. Okay. That was the problem. You got to get the microphones fixed.
 What’s wrong here? How’s that? Is that getting better? And they was supposed to pay these people, right? No. Is that better? Come on. Okay. We’ll do this. We’ll have to improvise, you know? Sometimes you have to improvise. Okay. You ready? Which is better, this one or this one? Which one? This one. Is that better? Can you hear? This could be a very uncomfortable evening for me. All right. We’ll figure this out. Come on. Let’s go. Good job fellers. I’m always saying I want a perfect mic. Good job. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Is that better now?
 So this is the first time I’ve ever used a head held for an hour, two hours, three hours. No, we have one more tonight. After this, Grand Rapids. We finish up at Grand Rapids and we finished up there four years ago, and a little bit superstitious. Let’s do it the same way. We came here. We came to grand Rapids. Let’s keep it going. And I hope everyone can hear me now. Yes? Yeah? All the way back there. All the way back. Good. You let me know. You’re not shy. I was wondering. Everyone’s going, I thought they didn’t like me, I was saying. I’m not sure. I said, “What’s going on over here?” Right? Good. Thank you very much.
 So under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded, 33.1%, fastest every recorded. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months. That’s a record. And while foreign nations are in free fall, we are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world. A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they’re better off today than they were four years ago. That’s under the auspices of Barack Hussein and sleepy Joe Biden.
 You’re not going to want to have Joe Biden. You know, see the media. Look at all the media back there. If they had to cover him for two months, they’d say, “We have to bring the President back. We have to bring Trump back.” They would be out of business. They would be out of business. If Biden, Harris and the radical left gain power, they will collapse our economy and send your nation, this wonderful nation, into a depression. This is the only guy I’ve ever seen who runs by saying, “We will,” he doesn’t say it like that. He goes, “We will.” “We will raise your taxes.” I never heard that before. You know, I’ve covered politicians. I’ve been friends with politicians. I’ve been enemies also, but I’ve never seen somebody saying we will raise your taxes. They want to give you the largest tax increase in the history of our country, and we can’t let that happen. We can’t let that happen.
 So get out and vote. Tomorrow will be, I think, will be the most important election in the history of our country, and I never thought I’d say that. I never thought I’d say it. So get out and vote. Sleepy Joe Biden will raise your taxes $4 trillion, massively increase your regulations, shut down your farms, close down your factories… How’s he doing so far? Send your jobs overseas, they started booing him. I don’t know. Is this guy really thinking about, I mean, could he really win? Are we serious about this? What the hell is going on? Is he serious? Guy has no clue. He’s shot. Some people are shot. He’s shot. Did you see him today with the aviators, right, the glasses, right? Came on very tough. He’s very agitated. You know, it’s like sort of like going crazy. Destroy the suburbs, dissolve your borders, terminate religious liberty, outlaw private healthcare, confiscate your guns. Second amendment is in deep trouble. Not with me it’s not. You notice it hasn’t been touched. Right? It hasn’t been touched. You think that was easy? It wasn’t easy. And indoctrinate your children with anti-American lies.
 So I just signed an executive order to teach our students pro-American values, pro-American values. Biden has vowed to abolish the American oil and natural gas industries and ban fracking. Now, from your standpoint, you don’t like it because you don’t want energy costs going up, right? That’s what he’d do. Biden’s energy ban will send every state into crushing poverty from Wisconsin to Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania. As long as I am President, we’ll remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world. And we are right now. And we will remain energy independent. You know, we’re energy independent. We don’t need foreign nations anymore, but we have good relationships in the Middle East.
 You know where we’re doing peace in the Middle East. Do you believe it? No blood in the sand, peace in the Middle East. Joe Biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure on foreign Wars. You know what they call them? The endless foreign wars, countries that many of you have never heard about. What?
 I don’t know. I think we’re doing fine with this mic, right? I don’t want to put this guy under pressure. You’re on stage. You got 27,000 people watching. Don’t get nervous. Oh, he’s not nervous. He’s a professional. I’ll give you the name of his company. Never use that company. No, he’s fine. Don’t worry about it. This is okay. This isn’t. Oh, you want to just put it in there? Well, is it the same mic as the other one? It’s a different mic. That means that one’s supposed to be better, right? That’s not good. All right. Okay. We’ll take that sucker out of there. Right? Congratulations. Go ahead. Do you want to put it in? How’s he doing? He’s doing a good job, right? Come on.
 [inaudible 00:12:08] Now we’re back where we started. See? The whole deal. We’re right back where we started. I take the mic out. Okay. Okay. You know what? And then I won’t pay the bill of the company that does this crazy microphone. And they’ll do a story, “Trump is a horrible human being. He doesn’t pay bills.” No, I don’t like to pay bills when people do a bad job. You don’t either. But I don’t know. They look like nice people. They come from Kenosha. So I’m going to pay the bill anyway. What the hell? You know? Well, at least I proved one thing. You know, did you ever see where I lift the glass of water and I wear the red tie. They’re sort of expensive. And you know, you don’t like to spill water on the red tie. Right? So sometimes I’ll use two hands because I want to catch the water, because I want to save the time because I’m basically cheap, you know? So I’ll take the water and I’ll go like this, and I’ll take a little sip and they’ll say, “There’s something wrong with him.” No, I’m trying to save.
 So I go like this. So now, by holding a mic all night long like this, you’re going to say, “Well, there’s nothing wrong with that right hand or left hand.” No, did you ever hear that? There’s something wrong. He can’t lift a glass of water. No, I have no problem with it. Some day I may, like Joe, but I don’t have any problem.
 Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Think of it. You lost half of your manufacturing jobs after the betrayals. These were betrayals by a lot of people and Biden was one of them. He’s a corrupt politician and he sold out Wisconsin to China. But he’s a corrupt politician and these people never told you that, and they don’t want to write about it, and big tech doesn’t want to talk about it, and it’s off bounds, and they’re not allowed to talk, and we have suppression. We have suppression. This is a media suppression, the likes of which nobody has ever seen. And if you take a look, you’ve never seen anything like it… The last famous last words. Right? But no, nobody’s ever seen anything like it.
 You know, his son walks in. His son had no job. He left the military. Unfortunately, it wasn’t good. And then what happens is the father becomes Vice President, and this kid becomes like a human vacuum cleaner. He follows the father into countries. “Dad, who are you going to today?” “Well, let’s go to China.” And he’s a vacuum cleaner. Follows the father, takes in money. Right? It’s terrible. They give him one and a half billion dollars, one and a half billion. Think of it, one and a half billion dollars, and he gets fees off that, millions of dollars a year. There’s only one problem. He has no experience investing money. They give him the money. They gave him the money after 10 minutes. I think our Congress has to take a look at that. What do you think, fellas? I think you’re going to have to look at it.
 Can you imagine? You know, I have a lot of my kids here tonight. Could you imagine if my kids said, “Yeah, dad, I got a billion and a half dollars from China.” Oh, I don’t think they’d want to write about that, the fake news. Do you think they’d write about that? Then he gets three and a half million dollars from the mayor of Moscow’s wife. Right? What did he get that for? Remember I asked that at the debate, the first debate, I said it. Chris Wallace thought it was an inappropriate question. Really? I think. You think? Chris Wallace. No, I must tell you. I think Kristen did a better job, Kristen Welker. Right? And I don’t mean she was perfect. Actually, some people said she wasn’t really very nice. I thought she was nice. Relatively speaking, she was great for what I got.
 How about the one, Savannah Guthrie. You see that one? That was another beautiful. Live at nine o’clock, she’s jumping out of a chair. She’s like going crazy. But we all do well. You know, I don’t get questions like he gets. He gets, “Sir, what kind of ice cream are you eating?” Did you see that? They never asked me questions like that.
 In 2016, Wisconsin voted to fire this corrupt, and really it’s like corrupt, corrupt political establishment. Right? And you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first, finally putting America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. Right? If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you, and nobody has ever fought harder for you than I am. I will tell you. Nobody.
 When the violent mob came to Kenosha, Biden opposed sending in the National Guard. Of course you remember this, right? He didn’t want to send in the Guard. He thought it was terrible to send in the Guard. And we sent in the Guard and we saved Kenosha. We saved Kenosha. I said, “You know, I think Kenosha is going to like me.” We did a good job. I wish they sent them in a little bit earlier. Right? If we had them in a little bit earlier, but that’s okay. That’s okay. But we sent in and how good did the Guard do though? Did we do the job? Did they do the job?
 Biden and Kamala, does anybody know who Kamala is? This wonderful woman, she wants to be your first female president. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. You know, that’s a good reason not to vote for sleepy Joe, too. Right? You don’t want to do that. We all want to see that happen someday, but we don’t want this to be the one. Right. But they’re waging war on our police. You know that. We have a lot of police here tonight. I recognize it because I went and I met all of the police. I met a lot of great police, federal police. I’ve met the whole group and you have great police.
 I agree with that. But I stand with the heroes of law enforcement and I was honored to be endorsed by Kenosha County Sheriff, David Beth. Thank you, David, wherever you may be. Where’s David? Thank you, David. That was so nice. That was so nice. They like you out there, David. That’s very good. Appreciate it, David. Thank you very much. And as I’m sure you’ve heard, Biden’s far left supporters are threatening to loot and riot tomorrow if they don’t get their way, if they don’t get their way. Are we-
 … if they don’t get their way, if they don’t get their way. Are we all ready, David? Everybody ready? If they know we’re ready and if they know we’re not playing games, they won’t even be here. They won’t show up. It’s like I brought an old law into existence when I saw them going around all over the country, knocking down statues and monuments. And we signed, we brought it in, and I signed it, updated it, signed it 10 years in prison if you knocked down a statue or monument. And you don’t see it anymore. They look and they say, “Oh, we’d like to knock that one down, but you know what, 10 years is too much, darling. Let’s leave now.” This is yet more evidence why the radical left cannot be trusted with power. We strongly condemn political violence. We condemn it and we condemn it strongly.
 Biden must tell his supporters. He doesn’t really have supporters, let’s face it. He doesn’t have supporters. They got shot. He doesn’t have. There’s an ideology that has supporters and he’s just the vessel. He happened to be the one that got through, because Elizabeth Warren instead of getting out like she should have and letting Bernie take it. Bernie, I’ve got to tell you, he is a great loser. He really is. He loses. It happened with Hillary and it had happened with Elizabeth Warren. What she did was incredible. That’s a similar philosophy. But Biden ended up being there. Biden ended up being there and that’s the way it is, and he has to tell his supporters. And I think you’re going to see something. Look at the people over here. They go, “Oh, hello.” Can you actually hear this? Can you hear this?
 Because this is the worst microphone I’ve ever used in my life. Can you actually hear me over there? They can. In the back, all the way back. That’s good. Thank you. I can’t believe it. It sounds terrible to me. It doesn’t sound great, right? To me, it doesn’t sound great. It’s all right. Good. You know what? Keep saying it. That Bill, he says, “Don’t pay him. Don’t pay him.” Did you hear that, Johnny? Don’t pay the damn bill, would you please? A piece of garbage they gave me. It’s not even the first rate mic. The good one, it’s put to rest. We put it the rest. The good one, we put the rest. All right, don’t pay him. But as President, I will ensure peace and order in this country. We are going to have peace and order. And you’re going to have a day tomorrow the likes of which I think people haven’t seen in a long time, a long time. You’re going to have a red way. It’s going to be a beautiful sight.
 And you know what? We actually have a country that outside of a radical group, and this is a radical group, but we have a country that’s very well united. When you look at a group of people like this, it’s incredible. And I go from here, I go I told you, Grand Rapids. They say they have 40,000, 50,000 people in Grand Rapids. Last night in Florida, we had 45,000 people. No problem. Everybody’s in love. Everybody loves our country. It’s a beautiful thing. I’m telling you, there’s a lot of unity. We just don’t complain. We don’t complain, we just go out and do what we have to do. But you know, when we were having that incredible run, we were doing the best, and now we’re almost at that same point, and we’ll be there soon. But our country was uniting. We were getting calls. We had the best employment numbers ever African American, Asian American, Hispanic American. And we were getting calls like, “Maybe it’s time we get together.:
 Because success brings people together. Success brings people together, and you’re going to see that happening, because we’re having numbers the likes of which we’ve never had before. Think of it, 33.1%. Nobody’s ever had that. The highest was 1952, and it was less than half of that number. So rioting, looting, and arson will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I’m just telling you that right now. I’m telling you that right now, that if people are, I hate to see where they put boards up on a window, this shouldn’t be that, it shouldn’t be that, but we are a country of law and order. We have to be. We are. And do you notice, I hate to say it, but it’s true, these are Democrat mayors and governors, there are Democrat run cities and states. They’re the ones, if you look at New York and Chicago, and how about Portland, which is anarchists? We could solve that problem.
 We tell the Governor, “You want us to solve the problem? We solve it in 30 minutes.” We solved it in Seattle. We went in, we were going to go in the morning, we announced we’re going in, in the morning, and they just raised their hands and they left the night before. And we did a great job in Minneapolis. We did a great job. We’re going to win Minnesota for two reasons. We did a great job. Now, they could have called. They could have let us do it a week and a half early. That would have been nice, so that the announcer, remember the anchor, you looked over, he says, “This is a peaceful protest.”
 Thank you. What a group, what a group. What a group. I’ve gotten to know this state very well. You surprised. You’re the one that put us over the top, you know that, right? Remember? We were waiting for Pennsylvania, four years ago, we’re waiting for Pennsylvania. They didn’t want to call it. Oh, they were going crazy, these people. They were crying. They didn’t know what the hell was happening. They said, “This will be a very short evening for Donald Trump.” Four years ago, right? And they were just, oh, they were looking forward. Remember the woman crying in the convention center, that beautiful? Remember the woman, she was going crazy, glasses, her head’s going? I wonder where she is right now. They put her away. No, no. This was not a person that I was easily going to convince to be on my side I think. She was going crazy. But remember at the beginning, they show everyone’s happy, everyone’s thrilled? They spent a fortune.
 It was one of the most beautiful things I’ve ever seen in terms of a stage. They had it shaped like the United States. Hello, Becca. Are you okay? But that was a hell of an evening. And this evening is going to be, I’m telling you, tomorrow, it’s going to be, I can’t say bigger. Was there ever anything as big? I’ll tell you, the election is more important, but the evening will be as good or almost as good. And that’s okay too. But that was a first, right? That was a first. That was some evening. That was some evening. “He won Florida. He won Ohio. He won it all.”
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And because of the microphone, we are giving you back half of your admission price. But considering that you paid nothing, I’m sorry, you’re getting nothing. The price is right. Nah, it’s fine. But wasn’t that something though where they say, the evening begins and they say, “This is going to be very quick.” You know what happened? They did exit polls and a lot of the people said, “None of your business.” “Oh, who did you vote for?” “None of your business.” That meant Trump. And they did 44%. You know that, 44% of the people said none of your business? And that meant Trump. They call it the none of your business vote. But almost all of them, I think maybe all of them, were Trump so they didn’t count him. So they said, “Oh, this is going to be a blowout tonight.” But they didn’t realize.
 These pollsters haven’t been doing so good with me, and we blew it out. It was incredible. It started with Ohio. Remember? We’re going to do great in Ohio tomorrow too, by the way. Great place. “Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio. That’s a big state.” I heard for a year while we were doing this, “You cannot win unless you win the state of Ohio.” Every night they did it. And then all of a sudden poll numbers started coming out that I was leading in Ohio. But anyway, they thought I was going to win by one point. I won by eight. They said, “He won Ohio. He won by eight points. What the hell is going on here? That’s a lot.” And then they said, “Oh no. Oh no, please don’t tell me this. Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. No, no, no, no. Please, please, please, please.” Remember Martha Raddatz, ABC? “Oh my God. Oh please. Please don’t tell me this. Oh no, I’m a neutral. I’m very neutral. I don’t do it. Please.”
 Martha, you’re neutral? Please, the tears, wipe them away quickly. No. Then we won Florida. Then we won Georgia. Then we won South Carolina. Then we won the firewall, was remember North Carolina? That’s their firewall. We were going to win North Carolina. They put so much money into North Carolina, but we had an asset from North Carolina named Lara. Lara, Lara Trump, married to married to the legendary Eric Trump. Where are you? Are you two there? We had a big asset there, Lara Trump. And she knew that area so well and they loved her so much. They loved her so much. And they just had another baby and they named the baby Carolina. They named the baby Carolina. And I tell you though, but I said, “We have to give South Carolina some credit too for that.”
 Bring them up. Come on up. Get over here. Come on. Bring them up. Bring them up. Great. Come on, come on, Lara. This one, they love her in North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania. And they love her in Wisconsin too. Here you go.
 Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you, honey. Thanks, Eric. Thanks, sweetheart. They’re doing a good job. They’re working hard, I’ll tell you. They’re all working hard. They’re all working hard. We have a whole group of family. This is like a family reunion tonight. Well, this is now the big time, because tomorrow’s the big day and we have one more stop. Actually, I did five today, but I could say I did six, because in Miami we finished at close to two o’clock in the morning. So let’s add that sixth today after Grand Rapids. Joe Biden is bought and paid for by big tech, big media, and powerful special interests. You know that. They own him, they control him, and they know he will always do their bidding. And when he raises $300 million for this campaign in a short period of time ask him, what deals did you have to make? Because I would be the greatest fundraiser of all time. I can call the Wall Street guys, I know them all I could say, ” Send me $25 million immediately, please.” “Yes, sir, Mr. President. I will.”
 But once you do that, you’re totally compromised. You can’t do anything properly once you do that. And I say, “I don’t want to do that.” And we did very well with the fundraising stuff, but a lot of it came in small donations. First time a Republican has ever raised a lot of money with small donations. $61 average or something like that. Every corrupt force in American life has betrayed you and hurt you, and they’re all supported by Joe Biden. The failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars, they’re supported by Sleepy Joe Biden. The career politicians that offshored your industries. And you had plenty off shore, and decimated your factories, they support Joe Biden. The open borders lobbyists, all the people that killed our fellow citizens with illegal drugs, gangs, and crime, and you know a lot about that, they support Joe Biden. The anti-American radicals defaming our noble history, heritage, and heroes, they support Joe Biden. That’s cancel culture. We don’t believe in cancel culture, do we?
 Antifa and the rioters and looters and Marxists and left-wing extremists, they all support Joe Biden. This election comes down to a simple choice, do you want to be ruled by the corrupt and selfish political class or do you want to be governed by the American people? That’s what it’s all about. It’s the American people. They’ve taken that away. They’ve taken it away, and what’s going on with big tech and what’s going on with the media, nobody has ever seen anything like it. There’s never been anything like it. Nobody has seen anything like it, where you can’t have a scandal if there’s nothing written about it. It’s a pretty [inaudible 00:34:08]. A vote for Biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalist and communists and socialists and wealthy liberal hypocrites, hypocrites who want to silence, censor, cancel, and punish you. These are real, real trouble.
 If you want your children to be safe, if you want your values to be respected, if you want to be just treated with dignity and respect, then I am asking you tomorrow to go out and vote for your all time favorite President, because we still have work to do.
 Thank you.
 Thank you. Remember what I said four years ago, I am your voice and we will all together make America great again. That’s what we’re doing. It’s what we’ve done. For the last four years, the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me. Can you imagine if they didn’t do the hoax. The Russia hoax? Russia, Russia, Russia. How about Schiff getting up the other day, the laptop from hell, right? Where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Is Hunter here? Where’s Hunter? Oh, he’s in a country. I see, his father just left the country. He’s going to scam them for a couple of bucks. Where is Hunter? No, but he’s got the laptop from hell and Schiff got up with the watermelon head, like I want a watermelon, and he goes, “This was produced by Russia.” These people are crazy, I tell you. Ay yi yi, what a crazy bunch. But they know I don’t answer to them, I answer to you. It’s true.
 Look, I didn’t need this. I didn’t need this. I had a very nice life. I had a very nice life, but you know what? It’s the greatest thing I ever did, because no administration, no President in the first three and a half years, the biggest tax cut in history, the biggest regulation cuts, rebuilding our military, look at what we’ve done, look at what we’ve done. Our vets just gave a 91% approval rating. The highest in history, the highest in history. No, look at what we’ve done. Space Force, I never even talked about Space Force. I never talked. I realized we needed it after I was in office. I looked, I saw. I saw a rush. I saw China. I said, “We need Space Force.” First time in 74 years, new one, right? A new one, right, Congressman? We did a great job on it. Together we will defeat the corrupt establishment, we will dethrone the failed political class, we will drain the Washington swamp, and we will save the American dream, a dream for your children, your grandchildren, a dream for your children and your grandchildren.
 We have the energy and the people to prove the corrupt media wrong. And that’s what we have, we have an energy like no movement has ever had in this country. Somebody would go in and do well in New Hampshire, as an example. I’m thinking about one man, because I have a lot of respect for him, he did well. Came in second in a primary and he became famous for many years. What we did is we won all the primaries, we won everything, and then we won the Presidency. No, there’s never been a movement like this. And now they go after us illegally. They spied on our campaign.
 Now they go after us illegally, they spied on our campaign. Our campaign, it’s not my … our campaign. They tried to take out a duly elected President of the United States and we caught them, and we caught them and let’s see what happens to them. And you know who was a part of it? Barack Hussein Obama.
 And sleepy Joe Biden and plenty of others, like Comey, et cetera, but plenty of others, but they were a part of it. So now we’ll see what happens, right? We’re going to see, we’re going to see what happens. So, but you have to get out and vote, this is the biggest thing, get out and vote. By the way, who’s already voted? All right, that’s not … but we have a tendency to vote on election day, republicans. So let me ask you, who is planning to vote tomorrow? Very important, very important. Is anybody planning to vote for sleepy Joe Biden, please raise your hand? Does anybody have the courage? Raise your hand. No, all right, yeah, get out and vote. Well, that’s good, that’s a lot of people. So a lot of you vote a little bit early then? Do you trust the ballot system? Do you do early voting or do you do the ballot? Early, I like early better, early as good. Early is good, ballot is not good. We got a very horrible, horrible ruling from the Supreme Court of the United States, a ruling that puts our country in danger, actually. On Pennsylvania, they have so much time to do this thing. Oh, let them put their votes in and give them plenty of time. We have a date, it’s called November 3rd. We don’t have a date that says, many days later. We don’t have a date that says you’re allowed to go and start putting your vote in later. And we can tabulate it later, take your time. The whole world is waiting to find out and there’s great danger in that, number one, there’s danger that there’s a lot of shenanigans that go on from that time forth. There’s a lot of shenanigans. And then there’s a lot of bad things that can happen with the streets. I mean, you’re going to have a population that’s going to be very, very angry, and you just can’t do that. That is such a dangerous decision. That is such a disappointment when I heard that decision. That’s a terrible decision, just you go take a look at it. And I know you people are taking a look at it, but there’s not a decision that I’ve ever heard of like that.
 Where people … if you want to put your ballot in, and if you wanted to … you go and you put it into a three or four weeks early. You don’t go and put your … he said, you had a whole year, you had a lot of time. You had a lot of time. So they say, “Oh, this is so terrible.” They gave them extra time and then all the time. So now we’re going to be all waiting around because Pennsylvania … we’re going to win Pennsylvania, it’s a great state. But you know it’s in like you, it’s in a total shutdown, they shut it down. The governor is a Democrat, he shut it down. It’ll probably open on the 4th. It’ll open … He’ll announce, “Ladies and gentlemen now that the election’s over, we’re going to open it up.” Right? But you can’t do that. That’s a very, very dangerous decision by the Supreme Court. I guess it was a political decision. I don’t know what it was. I don’t know what they were thinking.
 And you know what, maybe I should, maybe I shouldn’t be speaking this way. I’m very disappointed on behalf of this country that a thing like this could happen. Because we could be waiting for weeks before we ever find out what’s going on. The whole world is waiting for this decision. It’s a very sad, it’s a very sad thing. And hopefully it’s going to be changed. Hopefully, their wisdom … and they have wisdom. Hopefully their wisdom will prevail and they’ll do something. And lawyers will be going in and there’ll be fighting. But people, in fact, it’s all over television tonight. I’m coming from place to place, and the good thing about Air Force One, it’s got more televisions then any hotel room in the world, okay? You have him on the floors you have on the ceilings, you have them all over.
 And you see the comments that are being made about the decision. And some of the pros are saying, this is a very dangerous decision for our country because so many things, I mean, they’re going to say, well, how many votes short are we? We need 6,000 votes. Well, let’s take 6,000 of these. We’ll put them over here. Let’s take 6,000 of these. It’s going to be cheating. It’s going to be cheating. It’s like, they’re putting these people … and you know what, we don’t consider the people that have been running elections in Philadelphia to be very honest. We’ve had a lot of problems with Philadelphia. So that’s the story and hopefully that’ll be changed. And I’m sure the people would say, “Oh, you shouldn’t speak that way about the Supreme Court.” We’ve had so many bad decisions out of the Supreme Court that I will speak that way and that’s the way it is.
 This election is also a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown and a safe vaccine that ends … and by the way, we’re rounding the turn anyway, but we have great vaccines. We have great vaccines coming. We have great vaccines coming and it’s a lot of good things are happening. And when you look at the therapeutics, excuse me, here I am. I’m right here. No, I don’t think the therapeutic helped me. I don’t think I needed it. I’m glad I got it, right? Regeneron, we’re going to make it available free to anybody that needs it. We’re making it available free to anybody that needs it, free. But I’ll tell you what, I’m sure I didn’t because I’m a perfect physical specimen. And I am considered very, very young. I’m considered young for my age. No, I’m a perfect specimen. I’m in perfect shape. So I’m sure I would have thrown it away.
 But no, but I had it and the next morning I was not feeling good at all, I tell you. The doctor said, “Sir, I hate to say it. You’ve just tested positive.” I said, “Doc,” Sean, a great doctor, White House doctor. I said, “Sean, tell me, what does that mean? Tested positive for what?” “Sir you tested positive for the China plague.” No, he used it much nicer, he said, “COVID.” He said, “COVID.” It’s got about 37 names, you know that we could name it. I always like to have a China in there because I like to be accurate. But, but he said, “Sir, you have tested positive for COVID.” I said, “I’m in the middle of the campaign, I can’t be positive for COVID.” And so, anyway, so I was, and I didn’t feel too good. And the First Lady had it, at least now you know that all those rumors is that she lives in Virginia separate, I mean, at least now you know she lives in the White House. Because she got it probably from me or whatever, I don’t know, what the hell?
 Do you ever hear, the First Lady lives in Virginia in a beautiful house over a river or something. No, no, she lives … but at least that. I know people love the First Lady, they love the First Lady. It’s true. They love the First Lady, it’s true, they love her. She’s doing a good job. They love … the whole family back there, they love that family back there. Great family, hi, Tiffany. So, Melania has it but she knocked it out pretty good. And I did a great job. I was surrounded by these doctors, 12 doctors, I’ve told this story, each one was a specialist. Johns Hopkins, Walter Reed Medical Center is incredible, that’s our military center, it’s incredible. And I’m surrounded, right? I’m just surrounded by these brilliant doctors. One thing when you’re president, you get a lot of doctors. And each doctor grabbed a different part of my body. And I said, “I don’t like this at all.”
 But they told me about this one thing. And I said, “I really do, I like it. I really …” but it was very, a little bit early. What we’ve done with getting it through the FDA has been incredible. Biden wouldn’t have this stuff done for years. Well, he had a chance with this swine flu and totally blew it, right? It was a disaster. It was a disaster. Anyway, so I wake up the next morning and I’m telling you, I felt like Superman. I wanted to get out. I said, “Give me another trade deal to renegotiate that these clowns have screwed up. Gave me a trade deal to renegotiate. And where am I supposed to be?” “Well, sir, could you take it easy for a couple of days?” And people are sort of amazed. I’ve done these things, I mean, I do them. These are not easy to do, especially when you have no damn microphone. I mean, I’m working harder on this one than I have on all six that I did today. This is the hardest one. Because I have a microphone that was obviously meant for congressmen and senators, not for a president.
 So it’s a little bit off, but that’s okay. You have to learn how to … Isn’t that funny when he put it back in here and handed it to me, I said, “But that’s the way we started.” I thought that was better. Nobody got that, only this front row got that one. I thought that was very clever, actually. But then he came up to me, the doctor, Sean, he said, “Sir, I’m sorry to inform you that your son, Barron has tested positive.” Again, I said brilliantly, “For what?” He said, “For COVID.” I said, “Oh, that’s terrible.” “Oh no, he’ll be okay, sir, he’ll be okay.” I said, “It’s terrible.” But he’s young and he’s strong and he’s very tall. Have you ever seen … I say, “Hi, Barron.” 14 years old, he’s very tall. He’s definitely tall and he’s strong, but he’s young. And I said, “That’s terrible.” He said, “No, he’ll be okay, sir, he’ll be okay.” And I said, “Well, I hope.” Like 12 minutes later I say, “How’s Barron doing Doctor?” “Sir, he’s 100% now, he’s …” Get your kids back to school, okay. Right, get them back to school. Yeah, all right. So we’re going to mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks. It’s going to be coming out very soon and we will quickly eradicate the virus. Wipe out the China plague once and for all, get it the hell out of here. We will never forget either. We will not forget. That was not good. You know, we made a great trade deal with China as you know very well. But you know the ink wasn’t dry before we got this and no good, no good. Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state, locking you in your home while your far left anarchists are allowed to roam the streets, burn down your cities, hit people over the head. They’re allowed to do that. That’s why I always call all of these rallies, protests. These are not rallies anymore. Because you’re allowed to have a protest, you can’t have a rally and you can’t go to church.
 You’re not allowed to go to church, but you’re allowed to burn down the cities with a protest. So we always call these friendly protests. The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no Easter, no 4th of July, and no future. Other than that, it’s really not a bad way to go. A vote for sleepy Joe Biden is a vote for lockdowns, layoffs, misery, and no fracking. How about the guy, no fracking for over a year and a half. “There will be no fracking.” He goes to Pennsylvania, “Absolutely, we’ll frack.” Okay, and these guys don’t do anything about it. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life, then you have no choice but to cast your ballot for a gentleman named, Donald J. Trump. And as I said, you have to remember this, because during the debate, the debate was good … thank you, thank you very … thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you, everybody. It’s a great honor to be with you. I really did, during the Kenosha disaster, I really got to be friendly with a lot of people up here. Long before that because we’ve had so many different people that we deal with. You have great people, we’re going to introduce you to a few of them, but you have great people here. But I really got to know you during that problem. That potential crisis that we put out very, very swiftly once we got called and it’s great. You’re great people. You built the country, you’re great people. Joe Biden, and as I said, he ran the H1NI, he called it N1H1, he couldn’t get it right. He still does, he can’t get it right. I said, “Joe, H comes before N, it’s easy to remember.”
 H1N1, swine flu. And he failed horribly and he was a laughingstock all over Washington. As you remember, as his chief of staff, I don’t know why this guy said it, but he made the worst statements. He said, “This guy, we have no idea what we’re doing.” Now, all of a sudden he’s coming and he’s … He was the one that said, I shouldn’t close it down to China, heavily infected China, right? You remember that mess? Anyway, now he runs, he said, “I should have closed it sooner.” It’s really disgraceful. Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, a respected man, he said Biden has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four years, right? Four years, he said, he’s always wrong. And he has been always wrong. I don’t believe he’s even running. I can’t believe the whole thing. I’ve watched, I watched the debates. You had 27 total killers on the stage and he was there. But you don’t have to believe me because it’s you, and because it’s Wisconsin, we spent a fortune. And hopefully that’ll work better than the microphone, try it, put it on.
 This was today, he forgot to show up.
 Thank you, what a good job.
 …good job.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 That was just a small little sampling. We have many more. Some were too rough to put on, we just decided… Look. This is not what our country needs. This isn’t about… Yeah, it is about me, I guess, when you think about it. But this is not what our country can have. We can’t have this. One thing I’ll tell you I learned, President Xi of China, President Putin of Russia, Kim Jong-un of North Korea and many others, all of them, they’re very sharp. They’re very smart. They’re very sharp. He wasn’t sharp 25 years ago, and now it’s not… You can’t let this happen to our country. That’s all I can say, because it’s not a game. We’re not playing a game.
 We have a good time tonight. We love each other. We’re having fun, but when you get down… It’s not about fun. We can’t let this happen to our country. Joining us tonight, speaking about somebody that’s great, is a senator who is my friend. He’s my friend and he is a… He just doesn’t stop. He’s one of the sharpest, toughest people in Washington, and he is… When he’s on somebody, that person has no chance, or that bad group has no chance. He’s the Head of Homeland, but he’s a respected person, and he’s your senator, and we love him. I’m telling you, everybody in Washington talks about him in the greatest of tones. Senator Ron Johnson. Ron, thank you.
 He doesn’t stop. You talk about not giving up. He doesn’t stop. We have Bryan Steil. Congressman, great job. Great job you’re doing. Thank you. Thank you for a great job you’re doing. Glenn Grothman. Glenn, thank you very much. Great job. Glenn’s doing a great job. Darin LaHood. Darin, good job, Darin. What a good group. You have a wonderful candidate who’s going to be running, and you know who that is? Where is he? Where is Jim? Jim? Jim Oberweis. Jim, thank you, Jim. I heard you’re doing well. Glenn, how’s he doing in the polls? Okay?
 He said, “He’s going to win.” When he says, “He’s going to win,” he’s going to win too. Good. Now I heard you’re doing very well. Good. Very good. State GOP Chair Andrew Hitt. How are we doing, Andrew, tomorrow? Good? We’re okay? Because he’s doing a nice job, but if we don’t win, he’ll be fired immediately. A friend of mine and a guy who’s done a terrific job, he loves his state, Kenosha’s own Reince Priebus. Where is he? Reince? Stand up, Reince. Where’s Reince? What a good guy he is, too. What a good guy. It took me years to learn how to pronounce his name properly, but he’s a fantastic person. I’m especially glad to be joined tonight by Don Jr. and Kimberly. Don?
 Come on up. They’re saying, “Bring them up.” Come on. Come on up. See, he’s a mountain man. He loves to go out to hunting. You don’t have a jacket. If you catch a cold… He likes the outdoors, huh? You doing okay? Come on, say something.
 Good job. Thank you. Thanks, Kim. Thank you, sweetheart. Thank you very much. I’ll tell you, they’re campaigning hard. They’re all campaigning hard. They’re all campaigning. I see back there Ivanka and Jared. Jared is doing peace in the Middle East. Jared is doing a great job. Peace in the Middle East. Jared, are you going to get it done? You’re going to get it done, Jared? I hope so. Come on up. Come on up. Jared and Ivanka, come on. Come on. This is like an old home week for you. I look back, the whole family is here. Tiffany, come on up. I see Tiffany. Come on up, Tiffany. Come on up. Here, honey. Say something.
 Thank you, sweetheart. Jared, would you like to say something about peace in the Middle East to this very small crowd?
 Great job, Jared. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thanks, kids. Thanks, everybody. I see some people. Do I see Corey Lewandowski back there? Yes. Do I see David? Is that David? Come on. Get over here, Corey. Corey Lewandowski. David, come on. David Bossie. What a group. Stand up. Just stand up. We don’t have to hear from them. The mic doesn’t work anyway, so don’t worry about it. Great job. Great job. Good luck on television tomorrow. I think you’re going to have a blow out tomorrow, okay? But I want to thank…
 Look. I have a great family. I have a family. They’re working all the time, all of them. We appreciate it. Special people. We didn’t need this. We have a wonderful, super… It was just going good. Then I said, “You know, maybe I’ll give it a shot.” You know why? Because of trade. It started because of trade. I hated… I watched. It was so obvious, the way we were being ripped off on trade. I said, “Let’s give it a whirl.” I said to my wife, “I’d like to do it. What do you think?” She said, “Well, you have to really want it, because you know you will win, don’t you?” I said, “You think so? Really?” She had a little more security in the fact that if I ran… No. She said, “You will win if you… But you have to make sure you want it.” I said, “I want to do it because we have so many things we could do.”
 I never thought we would have done what we’ve done, though. We’ve done a lot together. Together, we’ve done so much. I mean, you think about all… It probably started more… I talked to Ron about it. It probably started with trade, though, because I hated our companies were leaving to Mexico, Canada, China. They were all leaving our country. We had these stupid laws, and horrible tax deals where they had incentives to move to Mexico. They got incentivized to move to Mexico.
 Somebody had a concept, “Gee, let’s make Mexico great again.” I said, “No. I want to make our country great again.” That’s the story. It’s a complicated story, but it all evolved into this evening. Tomorrow we have our big day, and tomorrow I think it’s going to be a really special day. I hope you can all go out. You’ll find the time, and go out and vote, and we’re going to make you very proud. You’re going to be made really very proud. I’m just finishing off. For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars, and defending foreign borders. But now we’re finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities, and we are bringing our jobs, and our factories, and our troops… Finally, finally, finally we’re bringing them back home to the U.S.A. where they belong. For 47 years, Joe Biden viscously attacked Black Americans. He called young Black men, “super predators,” all the time. To every Black American. I am asking you to go out tomorrow and vote. It’s very important. This is your one and only chance to show sleep Joe Biden what you think of his decision to attack you, to jail you, and to betray you. I’m fighting for you, and we got criminal justice reform completed, prison reform completed, Opportunity Zones completed with the great Tim Scott of South Carolina. And funding for historically Black colleges and universities. We got that done.
 I say all the time, and sometimes people will say, “That’s a big statement.” Then they realize it’s true. With the exception of Abraham Lincoln, there’s never been a president that has done so much for the Black community, and it’s my honor. It’s my honor. It is my honor, and under my leadership… And by the way, I don’t know if you have been watching what’s going on in Florida. We’re doing really well. You know what they’re talking about? The Black community and the Hispanic American community is really… They’re liking Trump. What’s going on? No, we’re doing very well. Florida. Florida is doing very well. In conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing super power of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already begun. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms, your second amendment. Which is totally under siege, but as long as Ron Johnson and your great congressman are there, we will protect it. Right, Glenn? Everybody. We will protect it, Ron. That’s an easy one for us. But it wouldn’t be easy if he got in. We wouldn’t have enough to say about it.
 We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. It starts on January 1st, and it will be bigger than healthcare. Lower drug prices ever more, favored nations. The drug companies do not like me too much, I will tell you. We’ll have the lowest drug prices anywhere in the world. We will always protect patients with preexisting conditions.
 America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students, and we will restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. We will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”
 For years, you had a president who apologized to America. Is this true? I mean, we have had… I watched Obama go out and apologize all over the world. He would apologize all over the world. He apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great, great people of Wisconsin. Tomorrow you have the power, you have the vote. You have the power really, to save America. We can’t go down that path.
 We will never be a socialist country. We never be. Get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, grab your boss by the tie and say, “Come on, boss. We got to get out and vote, get out and vote.” From Madison to Milwaukee, from Janesville to La Crosse, and from… Your team is doing well, right? Your team is doing well. Green Bay. Green Bay. Do you like your quarterback? I do. I like your quarterback. You know who I like? We like Brett Favre. Do you like Brett Favre? Do you know that Brett Favre endorsed me last week? We love Brett Favre. What a great guy. I got to know him. He’s a tough cookie. He’s a tough guy. Great guy. Green Bay to right here in Kenosha, we inherit the legacy of American patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears to defend our country, and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and the best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you help build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going got keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going got keep on winning, winning, winning. Winning, you. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. Together with the incredible people of Wisconsin, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. Your 401Ks are doing very well.
 We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We’re proud again. We’re respected. We’re respected again. We have made America safe again. We will make America great again. Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you, Wisconsin. Go out and vote. Thank you. It’s a great honor.
 Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. This does not look like a second-place finish. I saw Sleepy Joe. He had about 12 people and unable to fill up his circles. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much. Ah, Pennsylvania. We love Pennsylvania. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This is a nice rowdy crowd, isn’t it? Only in Pennsylvania. We win Pennsylvania, we win the whole deal. You know that. Just like last time. We want to have the same result as we had last time. Hello, Scranton. Hello, Pennsylvania. Thank you very much. Tomorrow, we are going to win the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and we are going to win more four more years in the White House. With your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great police, support our magnificent military, protect your Second Amendment, defend religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, Made in the USA. Right? More and more.
 Thank you. Thank you. Remember, last time they said, “No, no, Pennsylvania hasn’t been won by a Republican for many, many years, many, many years,” and then we won. It wasn’t even close, when you get right down it. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 That’s really nice. Don’t make me cry. I’ll cry with that whole thing. I’ll cry. Then they’ll have it on, they’ll say the president broke down and cried in front of his fans. I don’t know. Hey, maybe would lift you up, right? You pick up 10 points for crying. I say, I still don’t want to do it. Thank you very much. It’s really nicee.
 Thank you. Nobody’s ever heard that chant before. It’s never a chance that anybody’s ever heard in a political way. We like Ronald Reagan, we like people, but nobody’s ever heard of that chant and we appreciate it. Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. We have the foundation, it’s already done. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded. Last Friday, it was released. 33.1%, the fasted. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months, while foreign nations are in a free fall. You see what’s happening all over the world. We are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world.
 We went down less and we’ve gone up much more. Nobody close. A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago. If Biden and Kamala … You know Kamala, right? Kamala. Remember it’s the Harris-Biden administration, when he said that? The Harris-Biden … No, no, Joe. You’re supposed to go first, Joe. But Harris and the radical left and she is radical left. She’s further, I guess you could say Bernie is a conservative by comparison, right? No, she’s the most far left. The radical left gain power, they will collapse our economy and send Pennsylvania into a steep depression.
 Don’t worry about it. It’s not going to happen. I don’t think it’s going to happen. We’re going to win. We’ve got some big surprises. Oh, look at all of the fake news. Look at all of the fake news. Hey, Kevin, Kevin, Kevin. Kevin, turn the mic on them. Turn the mic on them.
 Biden will raise your taxes $4 trillion, massively increasing your regulations. They’re going to increase your regulations, may be more important than the tax cuts. We gave the biggest tax cut in the history of our country, and maybe more importantly, we did regulation cuts, which were also the biggest in the history of our country. Whether it be four years, eight years, or in one case more. Shut down your economy, close down manufacturing, send your jobs overseas, destroy our suburbs and he will destroy our suburbs. I say to the women of the suburbs, “Love me, women of the suburbs. Bless you.” I terminated the regulation. Dissolve your borders, terminate religious liberty, outlaw private healthcare. 180 million people outlaw. They’re going to have socialized medicine. That’s what they’re going to have. Somehow, I don’t see Pennsylvania liking that too much. Confiscate your guns. Second Amendment in big trouble, and indoctrinate your children with anti-American lies. I just signed an executive order to teach our students pro-American value.
 Biden has vowed to abolish, extinguish and eradicate American oil, all fracking and natural gas. I say this because, we’ll give it an extra little time. This is Pennsylvania. This is a state, that’s a wonderful state. I went to school here. I went to college here and I’ll tell you what, and I know it well, a big part of your livelihood or your money, your income, your low taxes is fracking. He spent over a year saying he will not allow fracking.
 The first time he came into Pennsylvania as the nominee, which was a shock to everybody, everybody, all Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren had to do is leave two days early, and it would have been Crazy Bernie, instead of Sleepy Joe. I would have had a crazy guy instead of a sleepy guy. But he came in and after going for one year and she, forgot it, she still can’t say it. She can’t say it. But he said, “No, we will ban fracking. We will ban fracking.” That’s what he said many, many times. Once he got the nomination, he came to Pennsylvania. They said, “You’re going to have to do something because you have a million jobs and it’s a massive part of your wealth.” He walked in and he went from, we will ban fracking to, of course, we can have fracking. What’s the problem? Just remember this, it’s always … Yeah, that’s right. He said, play the video, and I might not have that one in the video today. But you know, he immediately changed. The fake news, the fake news, where is Hunter?
 Where’s Hunter? Hunter’s in a foreign country taking in 25 million today. He’s at a country that his father just left, picking up about 25 million. Now, that’s total corruption. But he went out, and he started talking about fracking. He said, “We will absolutely allow you, but not on government land,” and the press never held him accountable. They never held him accountable for all of the corruption that he’s a part of. Biden’s plan to ban fracking, is an economic death sentence for Pennsylvania. Biden’s energy shutdown will wipe out your jobs, decimate your towns, eliminate your factories and send your state into a nightmare of crippling poverty. You’ve been there. You’ve been there. You had the best three years that you’ve ever had, under President Trump. The best three years. The best three years.
 Next year will be the best of all. Watch. You see it happening. If you look at housing starts, you look at automobile manufacturing, you’re going to have your best year next year, unless somebody decides to come along and quadruple your taxes. Then, you’re going down here, which is what he’s going to do. A vote for Biden is a vote to ban fracking, outlaw mining, explode energy costs, and totally destroy Pennsylvania. You know that right? It’s going to destroy Pennsylvania and it can happen. It can happen very fast. You take a look at a country, take a look at Venezuela, same ideology. This was unbelievably wealthy, rich country, one of the richest countries, and now they don’t have water. They don’t have food. They don’t have medicine. It’s a very sad situation and it can happen here, just much, much bigger, but it can happen here with these maniacs. It’s one of those things. Joe Biden is a globalist, who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure on ridiculous, endless foreign wars. Most of you have never even heard of some of these countries. He shuttered your steel mills. I got them open. I got them open.
 I tariffed, very nicely tariffed dumped steel. They were dumping steel. China was dumping steel all over the place. You ask the heads of your steel companies. You wouldn’t have any steel companies right now. Annihilated your coal jobs and supported every disastrous trade deal, for a half a century. He was a cheerleader of NAFTA, which was one of the worst trade deals ever made. We have a very good one now, thank you. China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, which lifted China into a great power, a great economic power, except they were going to catch us. For 10 years, if you study, China was going to catch us in 2019. Guess what? We were going so far ahead, and frankly, if you have somebody smart, real smart in this position, they’ll never catch you. They will never ever catch you.
 But, if you study The history, you’ll see, 10 years ago, 2019, they will catch, and they would have. If I didn’t come along, they would’ve caught you. They would’ve caught you. Then, we had the plague. We built the greatest economy in history, and then we had the plague coming from China. Came in, we closed it down. We saved 2 million lives. We saved 2 million lives and nobody gets it. The projection was 2.2 million modeled out. We saved 2 million lives. We understand the disease and now we opened it up. By the way, Pennsylvania, get your state open. Get it open. Terrible. Terrible. The governor has to open your state, Pennsylvania, has to open your state.
 Terrible. Wow. Get it open. Get it open, Governor. Get it open and count the votes, honestly. Governor, count them honestly. There was a very good poster last night, actually a good one. He has us winning everything, but he was on last night. How’s he going to do in Pennsylvania? He was on a show called Sean Hannity. Have you ever heard of it? He said, how’s he going to do in Pennsylvania? He’s going to win Pennsylvania, except for the cheating. We figure we have to leave 5% for the cheating that takes [inaudible 00:16:48]. Can you believe it, for the cheating that takes place in Pennsylvania? The guy meant it. A very great pollster, but he predicted he would win the whole election. But the question was, “What about Pennsylvania?”
 He said, “Well, you have to leave 5% for the cheating.” When the Supreme Court gave you an extension, they made a very dangerous situation and I mean, dangerous, physically dangerous. They made it a very, very bad … They did a very bad thing for this state. They did a very bad thing for this nation. You have to have a date. You can’t extend dates. The danger that could be caused by that extension, and especially when you know what goes on in Philadelphia, and it’s been going on for years. Governor, open up your state and please don’t cheat, Governor. Please don’t cheat, because we’re all watching.
 We’re all watching you, Governor. We have a lot of eyes on the governor and his friend. Couple of other governors out there too. Pennsylvania lost half its manufacturing jobs after-
 Thank you. Thank you. Pennsylvania lost half of your manufacturing jobs. Think of it. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who sold out to Pennsylvania, to China and also sold out for personal gain and family gain. Where’s Hunter? Is Hunter in the crowd? Where is Hunter? In 2016, Pennsylvania voted to fire this corrupt political establishment, and you elected an outsider as your President, who is finally putting America first. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. Probably, why, I’m here.
 If I don’t know always play by the rules of Washington or the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you, harder than anyone has ever fought. I will tell you that. Now, think of everything we’ve been through. Look, from before I came to office, from before I came … whatever, we’ll do that in a second. Boy, you are an enthusiastic bunch. You are something. Well, first of all, first of all, you’re known as a late-voting state. That means you’re smart. How about all the things, hashtag, how do I change my vote? Did you see that? After the debate, the number one trend was, How do we change our vote?” That was the debate. Did everybody see the debate? Yeah. They wanted to change their vote. A lot of people went, “Is this a Change the Vote state? Not so much, probably. I don’t think your governor would let you do that. No, we have some states that change-
 … I don’t think your governor would let you do that. Now we have some states, they’re changing the votes and it was started with the debates. And then they see the rallies, the biggest rallies, by the way. And I’ll say this to the fake news. In the history of our country, there’s never been anything like this. And this is at a pretty early part of the day. I wouldn’t say it’s exactly primetime. You had to see last night in Florida. It was amazing.
 But think of this. They write from before I even ran. I mean, I announced. Maybe before I announced, they said, “I hear Trump is … oh, let’s go in and do it.” But think of it. We were under investigation for three years and it turned out to be a phony hoax, and it was a phony impeachment. And based on the laptop from hell, the impeachment should have never been. It should have never happened. In fact, it should have happened against the other side because it was the other side that cheated. It was the other side that dealt with Russia. But think of it.
 And then they say, “President Trump, we don’t know if we like his personality. President Trump, he’s too rough. He’s too tough.” Let me tell you something, if we didn’t have a certain type of personality and if we didn’t fight, we wouldn’t be here right now, because we caught them spying on our campaign and trying to take out a duly elected president of the United States. And I fought like hell, because we don’t know any other way. We have to fight. But we caught them and they turned out to be the people that were corrupt. No collusion. They spent $48 million, they found no collusion. They had 18 angry Democrat prosecutors. I have friends that say there’s probably nobody that … and he was is one of the smartest. There’s probably nobody that he knows that could have withstood that.
 So we had 18 angry crooked Democrats. You had Bob Mueller that didn’t have a clue. You had all of this stuff. Think of it. We went through that for two and a half, three years, and then they say, “Oh, we don’t like the way he acted.” We were under siege illegally. They committed treason. They tried to take out a duly elected president and we caught them. We caught them. And then they say … I see it today. Then they say, “Oh, wouldn’t it be nice … ”
 And then I say … I see these guys on television and all of the big tech stuff, which is probably worse than them, right? They’re the new boss in town, right? Not the media. They just showed up, the big tech. And we gave the power to the big tech. But now I see it, I look at it, and I say, “Gee, they’re saying, ‘Tough administration, chaos.'” They created the chaos. All we did was fight back and we fought back well and we caught them and they’re all caught and now let’s see what happens, okay? Let’s see what happens.
 But we caught them. It’s treason. They spied on our campaign. Nothing like that’s ever happened. That’s a bigger event … I would rate Biden second. His family and him took millions and millions of dollars from countries that he deals with. He became vice-president. He had a son that didn’t have a job, he got thrown out of the military, and he went years with no job. And then he signs with Burisma for $183,000 a month. And then he wanted $3 million upfront payment. “What’s your experience? What do you know about energy?” “I don’t know anything about energy.” “Oh, that’s okay. We’ll put you on the board anyway.” And then he gets three and a half million dollars from the mayor of Moscow’s wife, three and a half million. Well gee, Hunter, what did you do? You gave her some big advice I guess, out there, right?
 And then they go to China, he takes out one and a half billion dollars to manage, which is millions and millions of dollars a year. And then the big one, I guess he had to stop that one because they found the laptop from hell. But the big one was a request to China to pay them $10 million a year for recommendation services, for services. No services, it’s a payoff. Hey, you know what it is? It’s a payoff. And the big guy gets 10%. He’s not a big guy. He’s a little guy. The big guy gets 10%, and there was another one where the big guy gets 50%, right?
 But he wanted $10 million a year, and the tech and the media will not … wait, the media will not … this is actually a very big moment in the history of our country because we have freedom of the press. But we don’t. We have suppression by the press. It’s suppression. And if anybody even mentions that story … you don’t see that story in the New York Times. You don’t see … that is the second biggest scandal in the history of our country. First is that they spied on my campaign, that’s the biggest scandal. And they’ve got everybody scared, but you have a president that wasn’t scared.
 And I see it with Twitter trending. I know what trending is better than anybody in the world. I’ve been trending my whole life. From the day I was born, I’ve been trending. I know trending. They take a story, they make it worse. Boring story, boring stuff. They’ll take something and they’ll say, “Number one trending, Trump this. Number one trend … ” it’s not trending. What trends is stuff that you don’t want to talk about right now, not having to do with me either by the way. Look, what we have, and what’s happened, and you’ve seen it all over the last two weeks, is a horrible, horrible thing. The media is fake and corrupt. Big tech controls the media and they control the politicians.
 And you know what? You have a president that’s willing to say it. And it’s a very, very big event. And let’s say … and I’ll tell you what. I give Tucker Carlson and I give Sean Hannity and I give Laura … I give all the people that are willing to talk about it. No, the Tucker reports have been phenomenal. I give all of those people that are willing to talk about tremendous credit, because people don’t have any idea how dangerous this is for our country.
 They won’t even think about … a guy walks away with millions of dollars. He’s vice president, his son’s like a human vacuum cleaner. He follows his father and he takes the scraps. But the scraps are hundreds of millions of dollars. And we can’t let this happen. We’re putting a corrupt man up for possibly being elected. But here’s the story. I don’t think that’s going to happen. I think we’re going to have a tremendous day tomorrow.
 And when he announces his speech in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he said, “I live in Pennsylvania. I was born in Scranton.” He doesn’t say that his father left him. There’s nothing wrong with that. I went to college in Pennsylvania, right? But I don’t make the biggest deal of it. But he’s … “I’m a man from Scranton. I’m from … ” He left at nine years old. And that’s okay. That’s okay. But this guy is a stone cold phony, and honestly, he’s not equipped mentally to be your president. He really isn’t.
 You know it, I know it, everybody knows it. I have foreign leaders calling me saying, “Are they serious?” I say … One of them called, said, “I see that you’re down a little bit in the poll.” I said, “Can you believe this could happen to me?” I’d rather run against somebody that was good or even outstanding. But I think what we’re going to have is one of the great days. When he comes to Scranton, then he gives a speech, he’s got the six circles. He can’t fill them up. So he said, “Could you please move over here to the press?” He puts the press [inaudible 00:28:48]. And look at this crowd. I don’t know how many people are here, but there’s a lot of people here. And it’s windy as hell and it’s cold, but I couldn’t care.
 Look at that flag. Oh, it’s so beautiful. Look, I’ve never seen a flag blow like that. You know what that means? That means it’s windy as hell. That’s what it means. Wow. Look at that. That’s sideways, but it’s our American flag and we love it, right? Yesterday, I was thrilled to be endorsed by the Pittsburgh Post Gazette. Can you believe it? Pittsburgh Post Gazette, and it’s the first time I’ve ever really liked that paper. And then once you get rid of the first one or two paragraphs, it was great. He said, “You might not like his tone. You might not like the way … ” and again, I’m a nice guy. I have to fight. I have to fight to protect me and to protect you. Because once I’m not here, there’s nobody else to protect you, that I can tell you. But they gave a beautiful … you have to understand, everything’s relative. They gave a beautiful, beautiful editorial, and I appreciate it.
 It’s the first time, thank you. I’m telling you, you’re going to make me cry with that. Stop. The president broke down in tears as they screamed, “We love you.” I don’t know if president Xi of China wants to hear that. Yeah, he probably worked like that. The first time the papers endorsed a Republican for president in over a half a century. So to the people of the Post Gazette, I would like to thank you. I will forgive you for your first one or two or three paragraphs, because they said, “However, he’s done a great job.” And I have, I’ve done a great job.
 But he said, “Put his personality aside,” but I’m telling you, the assault on this office has changed my personality. I can’t … it’s just one of those things. Joe Biden is bought and paid for by big tech, big media and powerful special interest. They own him, they control him, and they know he will always do their bidding. And when he raises 300 billion like last month, I could raise much more than him. I’m president. I could call all these Wall Street guys, most of them I know. I could call the oil guys, I could call them all. I would be … I would blow his numbers apart. Give me two hours. I say, “Send me 10 million … we don’t need it. How many commercials can you buy?” We raised a lot of money.
 We raised enough money. Crooked Hillary last time outspent us four to one. And I actually got criticized. I said the other day, even against Hillary Clinton, he didn’t raise that much money. And you won the race, right? They don’t care if you won or not. They said they always have to find something. But I would be the greatest fundraiser of time. “This is the president of the United States calling for the head of Goldman Sachs.” “Hello? How are you, Bill? Is everything good? Now listen, I’d like $25 million within the next five minutes. Send it to the White House, please.” What, do you think he’s going to say no? I would be the greatest, but you know what? I chose not to do that.
 And when you see he raised $300 million, his people are making deals all over the place. Every corrupt force in American life that betrayed you and hurt you, they’re supporting sleepy Joe Biden. The failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars, they support Biden. The career politicians that offshored your industries and decimated your factories and you got it worse than anybody else just about. New England was hit hard too. They support Biden. The open borders lobbyists that killed our fellow citizens and gave them illegal drugs destroyed our families and so many people, the gangs and crime, they support sleepy Joe Biden. The far left Democrats that ruined our public schools, depleted our inner cities, defunded our police and demeaned your sacred faith and values, they support Joe Biden. And I see where they wanted to defund your great Philadelphia police. And you have great police. They want to defund your Philadelphia police. Have you seen that? They actually wanted to defund.
 They wanted to defund your police. I read it this morning. I don’t know. I don’t think that’s a good idea. I don’t think people should take it. You can’t take it anymore, right? You can’t allow it to happen. And every place we’ve got into within a half an hour, it was over. But they have to ask the federal government. They’re embarrassed or they’re afraid or they think they’re going to lose support. We want to go into Portland, we’ll settle that in two minutes. We were the ones that did the whole thing in Seattle. We told them we were going in the following morning. That night, they raised their hands. They said, “Well, I think we’ll leave now.” They took over a big chunk of Seattle. Now we can’t allow this stuff. If you look at what’s going on in Philadelphia, you look at what’s … that can’t be done. And they can’t tell the police to stand] back.
 They can’t tell them. They stand back and they watch people walk out with washing machines. A guy’s pushing a washing machine. That’s a disgrace, it’s a disgrace. And the world watches that. They’re all Democrat run cities and states. New York, Chicago, unfortunately, Pennsylvania, and many of them are closed, right? Because you know why they’re closed? Because they thought it would hurt our numbers, and then they saw 33.1. That was a big number. The anti-American radicals defaming our noble history, heritage and heroes. They support Joe Biden. Antifa and the rioters and looters and Marxists and left wing extremists, they all support sleepy Joe Biden, sleepy Joe.
 And by the way, just so you understand, because look, Joe has no clue. Joe’s not calling the shots. And I guarantee you, he won’t be calling them for very long. This election comes down to a simple choice. Do you want to be ruled by the corrupt, selfless political class, or do you want to be ruled and governed by the American people? Which is what we’re doing, which is one of the reasons I’m here. A vote for Biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalist, communist, socialist, the wealthy liberal hypocrites, who want to silent, sensor, cancel, and punish you. If you want your children to be safe, if you want your values to be respected, if you want to be treated with honor, dignity, and respect, then I am asking you to go tomorrow and vote for Trump. Come on.
 Well, it’s up to you really. You got to get out. I’m telling you … again, I’ll say it again and again, Pennsylvania, I’ve done very well. You’ve had your best years ever. Pennsylvania. It’s going to be up to you. Such a big deal. Big state, everything … and we’re doing great in Florida. Florida’s been great. You notice they’re not talking about Florida anymore. Florida has been great. We’re doing great in Florida. So we get Florida. We get Pennsylvania. We’re going to get North Carolina. We’re doing great in North Carolina. You saw the poll come out yesterday in Iowa, way ahead in Iowa. We’re way ahead in Ohio, except we get sometimes a fake poll. We’re way ahead. We won Ohio by eight points. They say we’re further up than that this time, because everything I talked about, we have done, and more. We’ve done more than I talked about. Remember what I said four years ago? I am your voice and we will make America great again, and that’s what we’re doing.
 For the last four years, the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me because they know that I don’t answer to them, I answer to you, and it’s true. We did this together. This is a movement, the likes of which this country … in a way the world probably, but this country has never seen. You take some of the things that have happened over many, many years. A politician runs and comes in second in New Hampshire, becomes famous for the rest of his life. We won … well, we won everything this time. We won 100% of the states and the primaries, right? But we won 34 states against a crooked person, a very crooked person. By the way, how crooked it Hillary? She deleted 33,000 emails. What’s happening with that? But we won. We won like nobody’s ever won. Nobody’s ever won like we’ve won. No, the likes of which nobody’s ever seen anything like it.
 And just to get off that subject for a second, 2016, we had a campaign, nobody’s ever seen anything like it. Can I be honest? There is much more enthusiasm for this campaign than there was four years ago, because four years ago I came and I was a successful guy, and I said, “We’re going to do this. We’re going to cut your taxes. We’re going to get rid of regulations. We’re going to rebuild your military. We’re going to this or that or that or that.” And I did everything and more than everything.
 We’re going to take care of our vets. We just got a 91% approval rating from the vets on the VA. Okay. No, but think of it. We did everything we said we were going to do, but there is much more. And you know what? That was a record. There was never a campaign … nobody’s ever seen a campaign like that. That and Brexit … look at him. We have Nigel. I spotted Nigel. Ah, Nigel. But I actually did see a list, Nigel. They said the victory of President Trump was number one. Brexit was number two, but it was a distant number two. And even Nigel agrees with that. No, Nigel has been fantastic. What a voice. Great voice.
 Nigel’s been fantastic. What a voice. Great voice. Great guy. Thank you. Thank you. It’s an honor to have you. It’s an honor. They know Nigel. Brexit, Mr. Brexit. But the level of enthusiasm and I think you’re going to see a great red wave tomorrow. And I think it’s going to blow them away and we get Florida and we get Pennsylvania and we’re going to get New Hampshire. We’re going to get New Hampshire. Get New York. Can you believe that? See the disadvantage we have, the disadvantage we have, because I think in certain ways you campaign totally differently. The disadvantage we have with the electoral college, you automatically lose, automatically. I don’t care if you bring back Abraham Lincoln and George Washington as his running mate, you lose New York, Illinois, and California. Okay.
 So now you got three of the biggest and the biggest, but you have three monster states. That’s an automatic loss. So you’re starting off so then you have to run. And so we ran Florida then we got Georgia. By the way, we’re doing very well in Georgia. We got Georgia, we got North Carolina, we got Pennsylvania. That was a very important deal. We got Pennsylvania. We got everything. Then we got Wisconsin and Michigan. We said, “Whoa.” Remember they wouldn’t give you the credit. We were two points short. We were at 98% of the vote tabulated, 98, and it stayed there for hours.
 And if I lost every single vote, right, every and I still went in. So I said, “Why aren’t they calling Pennsylvania?” They wouldn’t do you the honor. And then they called Wisconsin, great state. And they called Michigan, which hadn’t been won in years and years. And they took the glamor. So will you please give yourself the glamor this time? Give yourself the glory. Okay. And make sure your governor doesn’t cheat, okay, if you could because they’re known for very bad things, very, very bad things here. Can you imagine the pollster saying you have to allow 5% in Pennsylvania for cheating. That’s a terrible thing to say. Of course, everybody knows it’s true, but no. But we have a lot of eyes watching. They never had eyes watching. We got a lot of very powerful eyes watching them. They don’t want that to happen to themselves. Together we will defeat the corrupt establishment and we’ll dethrone the fail political class.
 We will drain the Washington swamp and we will save the American dream. We’re going to save the American dream. This election is also a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic and we build the greatest economic country that we’ve ever had. There’ll be nothing like it. We will mass distribute the vaccine. We’ve done such a great job with this whole thing. You look at Europe, they’re spiking, and it’s everybody that say, “Look at the way Germany is doing. Look at the way France is doing. Look at Spain, look at now, Italy, right.” Italy in a really rough patch. Then it went well, they’re all having a lot of problems. I said, “Well, they don’t use those examples anymore,” but we have better numbers than all of them.
 You look at our numbers, they’re better, and it’s bigger and a lot of the numbers you don’t get because believe it or not, there are some countries that don’t give you an honest kick, right. You know that right? It will quickly eradicate. The vaccine will quickly eradicate the virus and wipe out the China plague once and for all. And let me tell you we’re rounding the corner anyway, but we have the vaccines coming very shortly. They didn’t want to give me the credit. They were saying, “No, don’t.” Whoa, they fought me like crazy. Did you see that? They didn’t want it to happen before the election, but everybody knows. So we have the vaccine. It’s going to be very quickly delivered by our military. Our military is ready to go logistically. Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state locking you in your home, but you’re already locked in your home.
 So I hope that doesn’t take away any of your incentive. You’re already locked in your home while letting far left rioters roam free. Isn’t that something right? You can’t go to church. You can’t take your family to dinner, but you can let people riot down the middle of your beautiful shopping streets, knocking the hell out of people, burning down your stores like in Minneapolis, burning the hell out of the place until we sent in the National Guard. That ended in 31 minutes. It was amazing when they started getting whacked with tear. I hope they weren’t aiming. Did you see Ali Velshi? He went down, Ali. I don’t even know who the hell he is.
 I just know he does a very nice job of shaving his head. This is Ali Velshi and this is a friendly protest. And behind him, the entire city is burning. It’s like Berlin on its worst day, right. They don’t report. If you have a bad in a Democrat run city, they don’t report it. I don’t watch CNN actually so I don’t know about it, but I did see the clips. And then the Allie Velshi then get hit on the knee with tear gas from our great National Guard. No, he got hit. He went down. I’m down, I’m down. What a group of people. CNN, how dishonest is CNN. But you know what? I think NBC is more dishonest than CNN.
 I think NBC and ABC. I think ABC is terrible. I mean, ABC is absolutely. How about where they interview me and every question is a kill. They go in for the kill and then they interview Sleepy Joe. And it’s like, “Oh, the most boring interviews.” They don’t ask him anything. They don’t ask him whether or not he’s corrupt. Are you corrupt? Hey, Sleepy Joe, are you corrupt? Remember I asked him that question and Chris Wallace of Fox wouldn’t allow it. I said, “Why? Why? Why won’t you?” Well, I don’t think it’s appropriate to ask right now. Chris Wallace, he is not Mike. He will never be Mike. He tries hard, but he will not be Mike. You know why? Doesn’t have the talent. The Biden lockdown will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Easter, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no 4th of July, and basically no future for American youth.
 Other than that, actually, it’s quite a wonderful thing. A vote for Biden is a vote for lockdown, layoffs, and misery. You’re going to have a miserable time. You know what the fake news doesn’t know? They’re getting the highest ratings in the history of television. When Trump is gone, they’re all going bankrupt. They will go down. They’re going to say, “Oh, I wish…” They’re going to be calling we want Trump to run again. We want him to run again, the fake news. The New York Times, the failing New York Times will be out of business. Can you imagine? Yeah, four more years. It’s true though, right. Can you imagine these people, they’re getting the highest ratings on television. They’ve taken over for the NFL. People don’t like. How about basketball? How about LeBron? I felt badly for LeBron. I felt very badly. Down 71%. And that’s for the champion. I didn’t watch one shot. I get bored. Back, forth, back, forth. You know why? When they don’t respect our country, when they don’t respect our flag, nobody wants to watch. Nobody. And the NFL is way down.
 The NFL is way down. You got to stand for our flag. You got to really be great to our flag and to our anthem. And if you don’t do that, we’re not watching.
 What a crowd.
 What a crowd.
 Hey, I have three more of these to do. Do you want me to stay with you all day? Yes. So yesterday I did five. I actually did six because I did one early for some people, but I actually did six, but I did five. I got home at two o’clock in the morning in Miami. I got home two o’clock in the morning and I said, “Good, what time do we start tomorrow?” Eight o’clock sir. I said, “Great. Let’s go.” But you know what it is? I’m doing a run, a great, great marathon, everyone. One thing I’ll say, they say I can’t believe because Sleepy Joe will go out. He’ll talk for 10 minutes. He’s very agitated. You notice? He’s so angry. He’s got the shades on now. They should be a little bit larger. The aviators, right. Are they called aviators? He’s got the aviators on and he’s so angry. And he’s reading every word. He never goes off teleprompter because he gets lost.
 He can’t go off teleprompter. He gets lost. No, but the anger, but it’s not really anger. It’s agitation. You know what that means right? That’s what happens is when you lose it, it can happen to all of us someday, but you can’t let it happen to your president. I’m sorry. But he was so angry. He was so agitated this morning. The glasses were pouring off. The mask kept on, off, on. There’s nobody around him. The closest person’s about 60 feet away, a reporter that’s can’t believe he got this good location in the inner circle that’s supposed to be for VIP’s, right. Now he’s got Lady Gaga. Lady Gaga is not too good. I could tell you plenty of stories. I could tell you stories about Lady Gaga. I know a lot of stories about Lady Gaga. And Jon Bon Jovi, every time I see him, he kisses my ass. Oh, Mr. President. He’ll get something out of it just like everyone is. But you know what happens? You bring in some of these, they don’t draw. By the way, we draw much bigger crowds than these people. But you know what happens?
 He’ll sing a song or two and then he’ll leave and the crowd will leave and Sleepy Joe’s up there talking. That happened to Hillary too, right. They got Beyonce and they got Jay-Z, right, Jay-Z. And he started using the F word, do you remember, in front of this crowd. And it was unbelievable. He was using the F word, F word, F word, and the crowd is going. And then they laughed and the crowd laughed. And Hillary was standing on the stage with an empty place and she was talking and she lost and people were surprised. Let me tell you something. When you look at these crowds that we’re getting, there’s never been anything like it. This is just not the crowds. This is your ultimate poll. This is not the crowds of a second place finisher.
 They said yesterday, they said, “Well, some people are here since, Nigel, they’re here from 24 hours, 48.” We have people in line for three, four days, and then the press says, “But will they vote?” Well, wait a minute. They’re willing to go. They’re willing to wait four days, three days, two days, one day online. Will they vote? Will they send there for an hour and vote? I think they’re going to vote. Who is going to vote? Okay. And seriously, is there anybody here who’s going to vote for Sleepy Joe? No. No. Is there anybody that would have the courage to put up their hand? No.
 Ah, but he was born in Scranton. What a phony he is. He was born in Scranton. I’m a Scranton boy. Did you see I’m tired of the smart people? Did you see where he said he is. I’m tired of those smart people. But we want a smart person as president. You got to have a smart. No, he said it. He made a lot of bad moves yesterday, didn’t he. He was having a bad day yesterday. He’s tired of smart people. No, can’t get too tired of them. To me, that’s an amazing statement. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life, then go cast your ballot. You cast your ballot. We’re changing. We’re changing things too. You could say what it used to be, but maybe it used to be a little bit like this, but it was never like this. Things change I think with big tech. I think it really changed. Joe Biden personally ran the swine flu, right. He ran H1N1. Remember he can’t remember that. He always goes no, N1H1 isn’t it? No, H comes before N Joe, just remember it that way. H1N1 swine flu. Remember he said the what was that called? Who was that governor from I think it was Utah? He’s a Mormon. What was his name? His name was Romney. Oh great. He’s another beauty. He failed horribly and he was the laughingstock of Washington so he ran the swine flu operation. He was the laughing stock of Washington. Now, when something much more lethal that we have done a great job on except with public relations. I would say if I had Nigel handling my public relations, I would have been much better. We have done a great job on this and you compare us to other places and you see and bringing back the economy, opening it up except in public relations.
 But his own chief of staff said that he was absolutely terrible. He didn’t have a clue. He didn’t know what he was doing. And he told us, right, that I was xenophobic because I closed it to China, which was highly and heavily infected. And hen he runs it and he says I should have closed it earlier. I said, “How does he get out of that one?” You know how he gets out of that one? The press doesn’t report it. They refused to report it. The only way I can do that is look, I got all live television, all the lights, and the only way they can’t keep it off only for one reason, I get very big ratings.
 If I didn’t get big ratings, there’d be no way of communicating. Oh, and they’re going to miss those ratings someday. Someday, they’re going to miss them. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said that Biden has been wrong on nearly every single major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four years. Now, he with Biden. He worked with him and he said he was wrong on everything, and he is. And he is, but you don’t have to take my word for it because this happens to be a state that allow, I spent a fortune on building these screens. You’ve got two of them. Wow. Usually I bring one. It’s a lot cheaper. Roll the video, please. Roll it.
 All right. All right.
 All right. We shouldn’t be laughing. Don’t let that happen to our country. By the way, that was just a small… We could keep you there all day watching that. No, we can’t let that happen to our country. We’re joined by some real warriors, Dan Wowser, [Mouser 01:00:27]. Where’s Dan? Where are you, Dan? Dan, Congressman? Where are you, Congressman? Where’s Dan Meuser? Meuser?
 Thank you very much. Thanks, Dan. Fred Keller, GT Thompson. That’s good. With you, with the three of you, what warriors you’ve been. What warriors you’ve been and thank you very much. They were there at the beginning and they have been with me all the way. And you have a couple of former members that we love that we think are great, Lou Barletta and Tom Marino. Thank you very much, Tom, Lou. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 How are your elections going by the way? Dan, how are you guys going? You’re doing good? We’re going to win Pennsylvania. It’s a guaranteed [inaudible 01:01:17]. That’s good. [inaudible 01:01:22], you got to vote for those guys. That’s a great group. So your districts are looking good. You need an extra tweet or anything? You don’t need? This group doesn’t need anything. And also thank you fellows for coming. When are you going to re-run for office, Tom and Lou? Do you have anything you’re thinking about? Look at them. They look healthy as can be.
 Congressional candidate, Jim Bognet. Thank you, Jim. Thank you.
 And a woman who is doing an incredible job, campaign chair, Bernie Comfort. Bernie, thank you. How’s it going, Bernie? We’re going to have a big victory tomorrow I think, huh? We’re going to have a big one. We better, Bernie. I’ll fire you so fast.
 Another great friend of mine, a great guy, David Urban. David. David, thank you, David. And somebody that I know very well. He’s a tall young gentleman. His name is Eric Trump and he’s been great. He’s done great. Oh, and I see Jared Kushner right over here. Middle East peace. Middle East peace. Wow. Jared usually likes to stay in the plane and work. He’s working on Middle East peace and doing a great job. You wee what we’re doing. Thank you very much.
 For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders, but not defending our border. But now we’re finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA where they belong.
 For 47 years, Joe Biden viciously attacked black Americans. He called young black men super predators all the time. To every black American, go tomorrow and vote for Trump.
 This is your one and only chance to show sleepy Joe Biden what you think of his decision to attack you, jail you and betray you, which is what he did. I’m fighting for you. And I got criminal justice reform, prison reform, Opportunity Zones with Tim Scott. Tim Scott, the Senator from South Carolina who is great. And funding for historically black colleges and universities. We got them the funding, long-term funding. And I say it all the time, I say it like this, with the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln, a lot of people like me to leave the word possible out. There is no president that has done more for the black community than Donald Trump. It’s true.
 And you’re seeing that by the way… You see what’s going on in Florida? The numbers are very high, like nobody’s seen before, with the black community and with the Hispanic American community. Oh, the Hispanic American, they’re liking Trump. I’ve done a lot for them and they like me and I like them. I always have actually. And they are voting for us very big. They’re coming out in Florida in numbers and the Democrats are very worried. They say, “What’s going on? What’s going on?” You know what’s going on? I’ve done a good job. That’s what’s going on. So I want to thank… We have to see what the final numbers are, but I think I can say in advance, African American community, Hispanic American community, it’s been incredible what’s gone on in Florida. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You notice they’re not talking about Florida too much, right? They’re not talking. We get Florida, we get Pennsylvania. You watch.
 Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. You know the wall, the wall is over 400 miles long. It will be finished soon. And they don’t talk about that one anymore either, do they? Don’t talk about it. When you have success, they never talk about it. And you know what’s happening, you know what’s going, right? I mean, other countries are coming in. They’re studying what we’re doing. All over the place, they’re studying because what we’ve done, nobody’s been able to do. Joe Biden has pledged open borders, free healthcare for illegal aliens. No, not for you. No. See, I delayed that a little bit. Free healthcare for illegal aliens. They want to give them more than they give us and deadly sanctuary cities. We believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.
 The Biden-Harris plan would increase refugees from terrorist nations by a staggering 700% flooding into your towns and cities. I am keeping, if it’s okay with Pennsylvania, I am keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Is that okay?
 I passed a ban early on and it ultimately got approved by the United States Supreme Court. But I passed a ban because we want people coming into our country that could love us and come in through merit and all sorts of things. We don’t want people coming into our country that hate us, can’t stand us and want to do harm to our citizens. Okay? So the ban was quite controversial, but it’s had a big impact. It’s had a big impact.
 And one of the reasons we’re going to win Minnesota? Ilhan Omar, Ilhan Omar. Although she loves our country very much. She loves our country very much, doesn’t she?
 We invested $2.5 trillion in the United States military. We have the finest military, the finest weaponry in the world, all made in the USA with the envy of Russia and China and North Korea. We have the best equipment in the world, rockets and missiles and submarines and everything that we’re building. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it. $2.5 trillion made in the USA. We also passed veterans, we passed for our veterans, VA Choice after 44 years and VA Accountability. Okay. VA Account… That’s where you say you’re fired, get the hell out of here. You’re not treating our vets right. I told you we got the highest rating, the highest approval rating that has ever been given by our vets. 91% approval. Who are the nine percent? Oh, they’ll find somebody within the nine percent. They’ll be on television.
 We obliterated 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. we eliminated the world’s top terrorists. Soleimani is dead. I recognized the capital of Israel and open the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. 52 years, they worked on it for 52 years. And instead of endless war, we are forging peace in the Middle East. Good job he’s doing. Good job [inaudible 01:09:08].
 A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote for the American dream. And who was a very distinguished person within the Republican party? The late great Abraham Lincoln. Please remember that. He was very presidential. He’s the only one I said, “Maybe I can’t be that presidential,” but he was very presidential when he wore the hat especially, right?
 Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s already happening. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. You’ve got them, you’ve got them.
 With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms. Your Second Amendment is gone if I don’t get in. If I don’t get in, your Second Amendment, wave goodbye. And I’ll be sitting home and I’ll be saying, “I told the people of Pennsylvania, you better vote for Trump.” No, your Second Amendment is under siege. That’s right. We put [Amy 01:10:37] on. You’re happy with Amy? Everyone loves Amy. Thank you. You know we do. They don’t talk about that enough. They say it’s the most important thing a president can do.
 So at the end of my first term, I will have approximately 300 federal judges, which is a big a big percentage of the Judiciary and three great Supreme Court justices. That’s a lot.
 Many presidents have gotten to choose. Hey, whatever happened to packing the court? This guy’s running, he never gave an answer. Maybe he’s smarter than we think. Whatever happened? He never gave the answer. He never said. He said he was going to tell us. We’re running. People are casting votes. You cannot elect somebody that’s going to pack the court and he’s going to pack the court. And he didn’t give us a list of the radical left judges who wants to put on either. So he got away with it. So he got away with it. He just did because the press never pressed him. Right? See, there’s a case. If that were me, I could never, ever get away. He got away with it because the fake news wouldn’t press it. He never talked about packing the court and we’re voting right now. He shouldn’t get a vote unless he tells you because he will destroy this country. That’s a big thing, packing the court. Can you imagine? But they never picked it up.
 We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might and we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices. We’re doing favored nations. We’re going to have the lowest prices anywhere in the world. The drug companies hate me so much, ai-ai-ai. They are spending more money on ads than sleepy Joe Biden. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will add the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. NASA. NASA was like an abandoned place, to now it’s the hottest. It’s the hottest place in the world for space. And that goes along with Space Force, doesn’t it? We did Space Force. We never even talked about Space Force on the campaign, but we needed it. When I saw Russia, when I saw China, we needed and we got it approved.
 We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”
 For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Pennsylvania. I know you well. I know you well. You’re a rowdy bunch today, but that’s okay. It’s rowdy, but it’s rowdy with love. It’s rowdy with love. [inaudible 00:13:44].
 Tomorrow, you have the power with your vote to save America. We will never be a socialist nation. That’s what we’re talking about. You’re going to be a large scale version, very large scale, of Venezuela. That’s what happens. It happens every single time. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers. Even grab your boss by the tie and say, “Come on, boss, let’s go. We got to vote. We got to vote.”
 For generations, America’s destiny was made, forged and won in places like Bethlehem and Bristol, Easton and Allentown, Pittsburgh and Scranton, right here in Scranton. Our American ancestors gave their blood, sweat and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, go out and vote tomorrow. We have made America powerful again. Our military has never been as even close to what it is right now. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Thank you, Pennsylvania.
 Thank you Fayetteville and North Carolina. Thank you very much. Tomorrow, we are going to win this state and we are going to win four more years in our great White House. With your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great police, support our fantastic military, care for our veterans, protect your second amendment, defend religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that wonderful phrase, “Made in the USA.” Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded. 33.1% just announced last week. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months. It’s a number that we never even thought possible, nobody did. Nobody thought it was possible and we’re going to now even do better than that. It’s going very rapidly.
 While foreign nations are in a free fall, you see what’s going on with so many nations in Europe, unfortunately. I say that with sadness. We are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world. A recent Gallup poll found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than they were four years ago, under Obama and Biden. You got to remember that, you got to remember that kind of thing. They didn’t do a good job. In fact, if they did, I wouldn’t have runned. If they did, I wouldn’t be here right now. They did a bad job. And Obama, he went out yesterday with Biden. They got like 14 people, they didn’t have too many. They didn’t have too good a crowd and we have five of these today. Five. We have some big ones. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you and I love you, too, and I appreciate that. We appreciate it.
 I was thinking coming in because I watch these fake polls, everyone, no matter if we’re up by 10, if we know we’re going to win easily, he’s down by one point, he’s down by one… I just watch this fake stuff and I’m saying to myself, you know, we’ve been under a phony, fake hoax investigation for three years, nothing but bad and really corrupt publicity from these people. And I say-
 I wonder what the difference would have been had it been legit, had it been legit. And it turned out to be just the opposite. They were the ones who committed the crimes, not us. But I wonder what it would have been. It probably would have been a little bit easier, but you know the good news, we’re going to win anyway. We’re going to shove it.
 We’re going to win anyway. I wonder what it would’ve been. I wonder what it would’ve been if all of the nonsense wasn’t brought up.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much. Looking tremendous in Florida, so of course, they don’t mention that. It’s Florida. We are looking good. We’re really looking good all over in the real polls, not the Fox polls. Those Fox polls… There’s somebody at Fox who doesn’t like me very much, I can tell you. They are the phoniest polls and they were almost as bad four years ago. Actually, they were worse, but you get some of these pollsters, they work magic. And the amazing thing is, they hang onto their jobs. They do horribly. Look at what they did last… I had nine states and I had to win them all and they said I was going to lose all nine. This is four years ago. I was going to lose all night. It’s going to be very short evening for Donald Trump. And the polls said decisively, “I was going to lose all nine.” And that was the day before and I won all nine. No, I won them all.
 Or I wouldn’t be here right now. No, I won all nine. They said we’re going to lose all nine and it was quite depressing as I turned on the television, let’s see how we did, he won Florida, he won South Carolina. [inaudible 00:12:32]. No, but thank you.
 And then they said they’re getting rid of the guy, like at Fox, I heard they were getting rid of that pollster and they kept him and they have others they kept. And you wonder what kind of a business that is? You wonder what kind. We have a case where in Wisconsin, we’re one up and I left there a couple of days ago. We had a rally, you wouldn’t believe it. Packed. Just packed. Just like last night, like here, but like last night, this was the section I wanted to come. This is considered a small, beautiful, cute little wonderful section-
 And they asked me and I said, “I want to be there.” No, and every vote counts. It’s very important. We had something last night in Miami. You would not have believed it. I don’t know who saw it on television. I don’t know, but you look at some of these results in Wisconsin, whether I’m up one or down one it’s right in that thing. I think we’re going to win Wisconsin because we have a lot of people that say, We don’t want to talk to you,” and then they go vote for Trump. The hidden voter or whatever they call them. Somebody said, “They’re the shy voters.” My people are not shy. They’re not shy.
 But in Wisconsin, so they said, ABC News, which is in my opinion, corrupt, but they’re all corrupt. ABC News, Washington Post, which is basically lobbyists, as far as I’m concerned for Amazon, it’s just a lobbyist. They didn’t say like, he’s two down, three down, four down, a fake poll. They said, “Trump is 17 points down in Wisconsin.” I could lose it. I could win it. I don’t know how I’m not, I did a lot of good things for Wisconsin, but let’s say it’s even and I call up a great pollster, John, and say, “John, let me ask you a question.” I think we’re one up in Wisconsin, but ABC, Washington Post, they did the same thing four years ago, if you remembered that, very close to the election, they said, we’re down 12. And then we won, but we were down 12 and it’s disheartening.
 It’s called suppression. What it does is it suppresses people. They say, “Well, listen, we love the president, but if he can’t win…” But they did it four years ago and we complained bitterly with a very good lawyer. I had very good lawyers in those days. We complained very bitterly and they changed it right before the election. I think it was one. We’re down one. They took it from 12 to 1 in about 15 seconds. And I realized, I said, “This is a phony business,” but now they come down and it says 17 down in Wisconsin, 17.
 I called John, John McLaughlin, he’s like the dean, he’s a great guy and he’s been very good with me. He said, “We’re going to win,” four years ago. He said, “We’re going to win easily this one.” He’s probably the biggest and the best. I said, “John, let me ask you a question. ABC, Washington Post came out with a poll. It said I was 17 down. I’m not 17 down. I might be one down or I might be two up, but I’m not 17 down. What’s going on? Why don’t they make it [inaudible 00:15:43] have to live after that? They have to do other events. Why don’t they make it three or four or two or five or something?”
 He said, “They can’t do that because they want you to lose and if you’re two or three or four, everyone’s going to go vote. They want to make sure that your people don’t vote and when you’re 17 down, people say, ‘I just can’t waste my time. I’m not going to stand on line.'” And I said, “Isn’t that sick?” And he said, “He knows some of the people and they’re very smart. They’re very brilliant. They’re smart people.” He said, “But if they made it five down or four down or six down even, so they make it something that’s so bad, 17 down.” I said, “Isn’t that a shame? I want to tell that story. Do you mind?” He said, “I don’t care. That’s the way it is.” It’s crooked stuff.
 The Fox polls are horrible. Every time I have a Fox poll, it’s horrible. I like some of the things on Fox, certainly Sean and Laura, and Tucker’s been great lately.
 And Fox and Friends in the morning is great.
 [inaudible 00:16:46]. I find Harris to be great, Harris Faulkner to be really good. She has been very good over a period of time. The great Lou Dobbs, he’s been fantastic. Jeanine, how do we Jeanine?
 Look, we have some great people that support us. [Jesse 00:17:07] has been great. Pete [inaudible 00:17:09] has been great. And I don’t want to mention, you know there are a lot of people. Look, we have a lot, but it’s 90% negative, everything, everything, but so think of that. I said, “17,” and he gave me an answer. I just thought it was so incredible. I said, “I got to tell that answer.” I hope I haven’t bored you, but I thought it was interesting. [inaudible 00:17:28].
 I thought it was interesting. To me, it was interesting and I have like five of these to do today, so let’s get going.
 And I appreciate you being here. We had some monsters last night. We had some little rough weather. It wasn’t like this. In Michigan, we had a slightly cold day with the wind blowing at 40 miles an hour in my face. And you’re lucky you have a President that doesn’t need a teleprompter. Good memory.
 I would have been in big trouble. There was no way you could hold paper. There was no way you could do, you were just… And my guys set it up where the wind was right smack in my face and I was looking at that flag from the plane and I said, “Oh no, here we go again.” But actually, the flag must be a very high quality silk because it’s not that windy, but yesterday, that was not an easy day. We had some very cold stops. And Biden and Harris, Kamala, Kamala. You want her?
 You want her as your first woman president? I don’t think so.
 And the radical left gain power, they will collapse our economy and send our nation into a depression. Biden will raise your taxes $4 trillion, massively increase your regulations, close down your factory, send your jobs overseas. That’s what he’s-
 … close down your factory, send your jobs overseas. That’s what he’s been doing all his life. Him and his group, destroy the suburbs, dissolve your borders, terminate religious liberty, outlaw private health insurance, 180 million people have great health insurance. Shred your Second Amendment, confiscate your guns and indoctrinate your children with anti-American lies. Biden has vowed to abolish the American oil and natural gas industries and ban fracking. For a year and a half, he said it. Then all of a sudden he goes to Pennsylvania. “No, I never said that.” And the fake news doesn’t do anything about it. Biden’s energy ban will send every state into crushing poverty from North Carolina to Michigan, to Pennsylvania. As long as I’m president, we will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas.
 And we will remain energy independent. Sleepy Joe Biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars, in countries that most of you have never even heard of. He was a cheerleader for NAFTA … and they’re all coming home, don’t worry about it. I said it.
 He was a cheerleader for NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. North Carolina lost 50% of all manufacturing jobs after those Biden betrayals. And now he says, “Oh, I’m going to …” he’s trying to follow my policy. He’s trying to follow my policy. He’s not going to do my policy has been doing this for 47 years plus, and for eight years as vice president, which is only three and a half years ago. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who raked in millions from China while giving them your jobs. He’s a corrupt politician, you see it. Now they say the laptop Schiff, that watermelon head, Schiff. “That laptop was produced by Russia.” Here we go again, Russia. Russia, Russia. Here we go again. Can you imagine what they must think of it? These people are crazy. No, it was produced by where’s Hunter? That’s right, it was produced by [inaudible 00:02:39]. No, Schiff knows. He a psycho in many ways, but he knows, it’s a total con game. I had to put up with it for three years and it affects it. When you see nothing but negative television every night, every night, every night. And then they find totally no collusion after wasting $48 million, 18 people, think of it. And then it’s no collusion, but then you have to run. But you’ve had three years of horrible publicity and they did it. I mean, they did it. They were the criminals. Hillary was a criminal. She deleted her emails. People go to jail for that.
 These are criminals. These are criminals. And say it any way you want to do it. But we took the brunt, then we caught him spying in my campaign and trying to overthrow a duly elected president of the United States. And that was before I even knew. That was while I was running, I didn’t even know. I’d hear these things, “Sir.” This is before I got elected. Guys would come up to me every once in a while. “Sir. Do you have anything to do with Russia?” I said, “No. Why do you ask?” “Oh, I was just curious.”
 Because it was like this thing floating around. Then they come up again, “Sir, are you sure you don’t have anything to do with Russia?” I said, “I have nothing to do with Russia. What the hell are you talking?” And you hear it four or five times, then you get into office and they come up with this scheme and this plot, it was a plot to overthrow the government of the United States. And then we have people that just don’t act fast. It’s just unbelievable. We have so much information. We have the whole thing, and Obama was involved and Biden was involved. They were involved, but let’s see what happens. People should move more quickly. In 2016, North Carolina voted to fire this corrupt political establishment. And you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician is because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought for his people. Thank you. Thank you.
 Get out and vote. That’s all I ask, is take a little time and vote. We got to win this state. I think we win this state, we win Pennsylvania, we’re going to win Florida. We win Pennsylvania and you, were going to win the whole thing. We’re going to win the whole thing.
 And we’ll send them a signal like they’ve never seen before. This has not happened to them. “Big tech is so powerful. You can’t beat big tech.” They’re saying this. And I see it on Twitter. Trending, trending. It’s not trending. They put the most boring thing. Anything bad about me. Number one in the world on trend. Boring stuff. As opposed to affairs, scandals, that they didn’t even put that stuff up. It’s always Trump, two, three, four, or five items. It’s a fix. It’s a fix. This is a smart guy. We have his name. Everybody knows who he is. And I’m not talking about the primary. I’m talking about people that work. They take stuff out of a hat. “Let’s see? This is bad about Trump. Let’s make it worse. Okay, we’ll make it worse.” Number one trend in the whole world. No, that’s not stuff that trends, but these are phony guys. They fix the elections and you know what?
 They should be subject to campaign violations because they’re an arm of the Democrat National Committee. They work together. They work on messaging together. The Democrats, the fake news media, they’re the worst. IN fact, these are fake people. And if I’ve done one thing, it’s to expose the dishonesty in the media.
 And not everybody, but a big, vast majority, a vast majority. Not everybody. Look at us, we catch Hunter and Joe cheating. We catch them stealing millions of dollars. They refuse to write a story. Could you imagine if I got three and a half million dollars from the mayor of Moscow’s wife? Could you imagine? Somebody gave me three and a half million bucks? Somebody gave me $20. They impeached me because they made a perfect phone call to the head of Ukraine. I never met the gentlemen. “Congratulations on your win. If you see anything corrupt, please call the attorney general of the United States.” And we have a corruption agreement with them because it’s been a very corrupt country. I actually have an obligation. Now, of course they impeached before they found out, before I decided to release the phone call. Isn’t it lucky that I had that call transcribed?
 Can you imagine? Now, they couldn’t do it. They didn’t know what to do. Crazy Nancy said, “This isn’t impeachable.” They said, ” You’re right, but let’s go through with it anyway. Maybe we’ll get lucky.” Because she didn’t know about the call. When she read the call, she said, “Ge didn’t do anything wrong. How did you get me into this? You shifty Schiff? How did you do it”
 Jerry Nadler, I’ve been fighting this guy for 25 years on the West side of Manhattan. Jerry Nadler, he’s a beauty, isn’t he? How did he get me into this? Well, let’s just keep going forward. It’s a disgrace. And I will say this for the Republicans, 197 or 697 to nothing, we won. And in the Senate, 52 and a half to one half, we lost a half a vote, I wonder who that could have been. But sleepy Joe Biden is bought and paid for by China. They gave the son a billion and a half dollars to manage. That means it’s going to make millions of dollars a year, but he does know anything about investment. Didn’t know anything at all about energy. He got $183,000 a month on energy. Think of that. Think of that, $183,000. I called a friend of mine on Wall Street, “Is just a normal fee.”
 He said, “No, maybe the most abnormal fee I’ve ever seen in my whole life. I’ve been doing this for 25 years.” He’s the biggest guy. But they’re bought and paid for. They got the money and then they were going for the big one in China. They wrote a letter to very big powerful man within the communist party. And where Hunter asked for $10 million a year, as he was going to recommend, he was going to talk. Here’s a guy didn’t have a job, got thrown out of the Navy. He got thrown out of the Navy. He didn’t have a job. Biden becomes vice president. And this kid is like a vacuum cleaner going all over the world, following his father, picking up the scraps.
 No he’s following his dad, picking up scraps. And then when you find the note where the big man gets 10%, the big man’s Joe Biden. The big man gets 10, then in one case, they said 50%, right? That’s more likely because he wouldn’t do it for 10. Because these people are all hangers on, losers. But that’s the story and it’s in a laptop. And now they say the laptop was made by Russia, therefore it has no credibility. Can you believe this? And so the news, outside of the New York Post, which really I hold in high esteem. They’re a hero paper and they endorsed me.
 I got a nice endorsement from, did you say from Pennsylvania yesterday, right? Pittsburgh Gazette. That was nice. Once I got through that first paragraph, it was phenomenal, actually. They said, “We don’t love his personality. We don’t love his tough.” I have to be tough. Look, I’ve been under investigation from before I ever became president. I have to be tough. If I were soft, I wouldn’t be here right now. And they don’t want to say that. I was under a fake investigation by a lot of fake people. Bob Mueller and his crew, the whole thing was a fake scam that should have never been started. And they knew the answer to the first day, but it took him two and a half years to put it down, no collusion, but they knew the answer the first day. So I was under investigation for the first two and a half years. Think of that. And then they say, “He’s tough.” But I’ll take it anyway. I’ll take their endorsement anyway. Because once you get over the first paragraph or two, it says all of the things we’ve done, which are incredible, which are incredible.
 And now we’ll have a chance to do it without the cloud. Because I had a cloud hanging over my head, whether we like it or not. And then they say, “He was tough. He fought too hard. He was somewhat crude. He was very, very nasty. His Twitter.” Now, you know what? If I didn’t have social media, I wouldn’t be here. It was the only way I could defend myself. So it was one of those things. But I just wonder, I was thinking, I asked the people on the way, if we have great people, such loyal, great people. Including a man that comes from an area not too far from here, is a good friend of these women who have been here, this is number 64 time for these incredible, beautiful, I think rich women and their husbands are in here someplace.
 But they had their husbands. They were at the one last night. That was a big deal, wasn’t it? But this is number 64. I would say I, right?
 65. Oh, there’s two more. They come from North Carolina, but we have Mark Meadows comes from North Carolina. And he has been fantastic, he’s done a great job. He’s done a great job. Where is he? He’s probably working, bump, bump, bump with a phone. He’s got two phones instead of one. And he’s not going to break it up with a hammer like Hillary did. He’s going to throw it away.
 He’s done a fantastic job. And he loves this state and he loves North Carolina. And I specifically said, “I want somebody from North Carolina and give me Meadows.” Now I knew three years ago. I said, “We got to get Meadows in here.” Big tech, big media, big donors and powerful special interests are desperate for sleepy Joe to win. They want them to win. I’ll tell you who wants him to win, China. They will own our country because they own him, they control him and they know he will always be there to do their bidding. He’ll always be there. He’s a corrupt politician. I don’t care, I’ll say it. And I say it, everybody knows it’s true. Can you imagine? Big tech refuses to put anything in. They took the New York Post down for two weeks because they won’t let anyone write.
 If you put out a little tweet and say that Biden is corrupt, they will knock out your whole account. Nobody’s ever seen anything like this and you notice, it is outside of what I say, it is indeed fading away. Because you can’t have a scandal if nobody writes about it. So we have the fake news not writing about it. And you have the big tech not writing. So, how can you have a scandal? Nobody’s allowed to talk. It’s called suppression. We don’t have freedom of the press. We probably haven’t had it for a long time, but we don’t have … they say, “Freedom of the press. The American way.” We have suppression by the press. That’s what it is. What beautiful words I should have done the speech this way, it would have been much more interesting.
 No, but seriously, we have suppression by the press. This is not freedom. It really is, it’s the exact opposite of freedom of the press if you think about it. Every corrupt force in American life that is responsible for cruel betrayals that hurt our family and all of the people that we love, they’re supported by Biden and they donate to Biden. I could have been a much bigger fundraiser than him, but I didn’t want to call every head of a Wall Street firm, every head of the oil companies that we’ve made rich anyway. I did a great job, we’re energy independent, that’s not so bad, first time.
 The failed establishment that started the disastrous foreign wars, they support sleepy Joe Biden, because they get anything they want. And he took in $300 million last month. You think he made any deals? No, I don’t think so. The career politicians that offshored your industries and decimated your factories, they support sleepy Joe. The open borders lobbyists that killed our fellow citizens with illegal drugs, gangs and crimes. The people that wanted to stop the wall, even though it knew it works. It’s almost finished by the way, be finished very soon.
 But the people that wanted to stop it, even though they knew full well, it worked. Remember they said, “No, no, we don’t want a wall. Walls are obsolete. We want drones.” Okay, good. Drones flying to watch the people pour into our country. They want drones, let’s have drones. The far left Democrats that ruined our public schools, depleted our inner cities, defunded our police and demeaned your sacred faith and values. They support sleepy, Joe Biden. You can’t even go to your churches. You can’t even go to your church and your governor of North Carolina, you got to open up your state.
 You got to get your governor, I hope you’re going to vote for Dan who’s good. You got to get your state open. Don’t worry about it, on November 4th they’ll announced your state is opening. November 4th, north Carolina will be opened on November 4th. Right after the election. Because they want us to look bad. They don’t care about people. They want us to look bad. They want to try and steal an election.
 The anti-American radicals defaming our noble history, our heritage, our heroes, they support sleepy Joe. Antifa and the rioters and looters and Marxists and left wing extremists, they all support Joe Biden. They always like to blame it on the right. Do you ever notice? “These were right wing.” It’s very rare. It’s rare. It’s you got bad on every side, but they always like to blame the right. It always starts off with the right, the right. This election comes down to a simple choice. Do you want to be ruled by the arrogant, corrupt, ruthless, and selfless political class? Or do you want to be governed by the American people themselves? You want to be represented by a career politician who hates you, or by an outsider who will defend-
 Who hates you or by an outsider who will defend you like you have never been defended before. I didn’t need this job. I had a very nice life, but I love what we’re doing for our country. Nobody’s done so much. Nobody, no administration and I never even had a challenge on this from the fake news. Normally, if you say something slightly off, they make a big deal. No administration, president has done more in the first three and a half years then we have, our military we rebuilt, our tax cut, our regulation cuts, Space Force. It’s just a thing like Space Force. I never even talked about Space Force during the campaign. I did more than I actually talked about during the campaign. Thank you. Thank you very much. I thought this was a small little cute area. This is a small little cute area. When I came in, I’m watching Fox and a gentlemen and anchor said, “They have a small crowd of about 2000, 2,500. Nah, I knew. I knew.” It’s an incredible thing. This is a lot more than that. This is a lot of people. This is a lot more than I wanted to do because [inaudible 00:39:51]. I mean, my granddaughter is named Carolina. Do you know that? And we’ll give South Carolina some credit too. They’ve been waiting. Is that okay? I want to get your permission. South Carolina is great. They are great people too. A vote for Biden is a vote to hand the keys to government over to people who despise you and who want to rob your children of their American dream. That’s what they’re doing. A vote for Biden is a vote to give control of government over to the globalist, communist, socialist, the wealthy liberal hypocrites who want to silent, censor, cancel and punish you. If you want your children to be safe and remember this, against… I’ll put it very simply, against the second amendment.
 If you’re pro-life, you can forget about it. Tremendous support. Do you see these people in California? They have lines of hundreds of miles of cars and tractors in Iowa and boats, five or 6,000 boat in lakes and ocean with the flags. If you want your values to be respected, if you want to be treated with honor and dignity and respect, then I am asking for you to go out tomorrow or sooner, but I don’t know. You tend to like to vote on Election Day, right? We all do and vote. This is going to be the most important election in my opinion in the history of our country. I never thought I was going to say it. If you have told me, I was going to say that four years ago, I would’ve said you’re crazy, but it’s the most important because I’ve always said we will never be a socialist nation and that’s what they’re trying [inaudible 00:41:47].
 And remember what I said. Four years ago I said, “I am your voice and we will make America great again,” and that’s what we’re doing. And if we didn’t get hit by the China plague, now we’re building it up again and we’re doing it at record clip and record numbers and at a much faster pace than any other country in the world, but we got hit by the plague from China and we will never forget it. With God is my witness, I will never let you down. For the last four years, the depraved swamp has tried everything to stop me because they know I don’t answer to them, I answer to you. Together we will defeat the corrupt establishment, we will dethrone the failed political class and we will drain the Washington swamp and we will save the American dream. This election is also a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown. He wants to have you locked down.
 I don’t even know if he knows to be honest. They ask him a question. I don’t think he has a clue. You can vote whoever you want, but I don’t think he has a clue. You know it, the media knows it. The media laughs behind his back and then they say, “He did brilliantly today.” No, he didn’t do brilliantly. He didn’t do brilliantly in his prime, and he’s not in his prime anymore. Or a safe vaccine that ends the pandemic and we’re doing very well with the vaccines. They’ll be distributed very soon. We will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks. It will quickly eradicate the virus and wipe out the China plague once and for all. Joe Biden is promising to delay the vaccine and turn America into a prison state. Looking again, that’s more Kamala. Remember when they said this is the Harris-Biden administration, right? I never did that with Mike. And you know what? Mike Pence never came to me and said, “Do you mind if I put my name first every once and a while?” Well, no. And by the way, he’s been a great Vice President.
 Some people say it was a perfect combination. It was. He’s a great guy. He’s going to be in your state in a little while. Locking you in your home while letting far left writers roam free. The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Easter, no Christmas, no 4th of July and no future for America’s youth. Other than that, it’s fine. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family and freedom to live your life, that you go and cast your ballot for President Trump. And if you remember the catastrophe. Joe Biden, he’s telling us how to run things right? This guy never ran a thing successfully. He always said horrible things about him when he was in the… Obama didn’t even want to endorse him. He wouldn’t endorse him. Even after he won, Obama said, “No way.” How long did it take him after he won? It took forever. Obama couldn’t believe it. I don’t think Obama is much better. You want to know the truth. Joe Biden personally ran the swine flu, right? The swine flu, H1N1, which he can never remember. He never says it. He says it and then goes N1H1 and I said, “No.” He failed horribly and he was a laughing stock all over Washington. They were laughing at him. And his own Chief of Staff said he was absolutely terrible.
 They did a terrible job. Now he’s telling us how to do it. I should have closed earlier. There’s only one problem. He’s on record all over the place, knocking me two and a half months later for closing too soon and closing it all. He said, “Don’t close.” He’s xenophobic. He’s xenophobic. I didn’t like people from China is what he’s saying. It’s so wrong. I think they’re incredible people. I do. I think they’re incredible people, but he said xenophobic. And then he runs for office. He said, “He should have closed earlier.” And you know what? The press never covers that. The only time I get it covered is if I happen to be on live television. I’ll say it again and again. And when I do say it, they try and turn it off, “Let’s go to commercial break right now. I think I know what’s coming.” These are really bad people. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said that Biden has been wrong actually on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades. He had no respect for him whatsoever.
 I’m sure he endorsed him because he’s probably looking for something like everybody else, but I don’t think any of them are going to get anything because I think we’re going to have one of the greatest victories tomorrow, but you don’t have to take my word for what a disaster Joe Biden is because it’s the great state of North Carolina. I spent a fortune. See this? See the board? I spent a lot of money on the board. So let’s just take a look at a little roll. Let’s roll it please.
 Don’t do it. Don’t don’t do it to yourselves. Our country has such potential. You can’t do that to our country. He’s not mentally equipped. He just isn’t to be your president. He’s not equipped to be your president. And I say it because he’s not a nice person, never was a nice person, but he was never a smart person. He was a touchy feely person, hale and hearty, but not nice. But this is not a man that 25 years ago is not equipped to be your president. And he ran many times, numerous times. We called him 1% Joe. Think of it. And now he’s working on about 50% and he ends up winning the nomination because of Elizabeth Warren. Elizabeth Warren gave him the numb. All she had to do is drop out and he would have lost on… I mean, then we would have had crazy Bernie. But at least Bernie, they had a great energetic base. It’s a small base, but energetic, but this is not a man that should be your president. We have tremendous potential.
 Our country has tremendous potential and we can’t blow it. We can’t blow it because there’s no way to describe that. And that’s like 1% .we could keep you out here all day. Much of it happened yesterday and the day before yesterday, oh, he had some beauties yesterday, but we can’t do this. And you know what’s going to happen? Kamala will be put in that position very quickly. And she’s more liberal than crazy Bernie. She’s more liberal. In fact, she makes him look like a strict conservative. Joining us today are some incredible people, incredible friends and warriors. And I want to tell you, I just looked at a poll and he’s up in the poll, Senator Thom Tillis. He’s up.
 That’s great. I’m good. I’m very happy with that. We got to get him and he’s a good man, a good man. And your wife was great the other night. We had a great rally the other night and you are well-represented, let me tell you, very well. Congratulations. Well, let’s save that for tomorrow or the next day, or as the Supreme Court would say, “Sometime into the future.” What a ruling. What a ruling. What a horrible thing that they’ve done. Do you know that puts our country in danger? Do you know what can happen during that long period of time Pennsylvania? The long period of time, do you know what can happen? Number one, cheating can happen like you’ve never seen. This is their dream and they are known for it. The Philadelphia area is known for it, but what can happen during that long period of time is just a disgrace. Get the ballots in and have them in long before the third and have them counted before the third and have an election where we can say to the world that we know who won and we know who lost. I’m just so tired of some of these horrible political decisions that are being made. It’s a shame. It’s a shame. And I won’t get into it too much, but I’m going to start getting into it because they’re hurting our country very badly.
 Representative warrior, David Rouzer. David, thank you. You’re doing a great job. Appreciate it. Congress, we have a friend over there. Richard Hudson. Where’s Richard? Richard Hudson, Congressman, and another great guy. Great guys. Did a fantastic job and a friend of mine and somebody that’s done an incredible job also in Congress, Dan Bishop. Thanks Dan. How you’ve been? You’re doing a good job. He came in through the system. He won a race. It was a tough race, right? We worked together on it and he had no choking him. He started off a little behind to put it nicely and he ended up winning and he one solid and how are you doing on this one? Good? I don’t have to help you as much. He’s going to win. He’s going to win. He should win. He’s a great Congressman. All of them, all three. Thank you very much fellas. A man that hopefully you’re going to recognize for, I guess he doesn’t have the funds that the other one has. I see commercials all the time for your governor that has you in a total lockdown, but Dan Forest would be a phenomenal governor, a phenomenal governor. He did have a surprise there. That could be a big, beautiful gift to North Carolina. A gift. That’s not bad. Hey Dan, that’s not bad huh? Beautiful. Dan, that’s a very impressive applause you got. I have to be honest.
 Don’t kid yourself. That is like a poll. It’s like a poll, except instead of interviewing 73 people, they have thousands of people here. Much more than the 2000. He’s got a nice 2000 people and I don’t think so. Well, last night in Miami, you want to see a crowd, you couldn’t even see the end of it. I’ve never seen anything like it. There’s such spirit. I’ve never seen spirit like this. At North Carolina GOP chair, somebody doing an incredible job if we win tomorrow. By the way, if we don’t win tomorrow, they’ll say, “How’s Michael Watley doing?” I say, “Not good at all. He didn’t do a good job.” Michael Watley, are we doing okay, Michael? Yes? Get out. Get out to vote Mike. Get them out.
 Get out. Get out to vote, Mike, get them out. Get out to vote. Thanks, Michael and you are doing a good job. I also want to recognize Medal of Honor recipient, Command Sergeant Major Bob Patterson. Where’s Bob? Where’s Bob? Where is Bob? Whoa! He looks good. He looks good. Wow. Your husband. Whoa. That’s a good looking couple.
 Wow. That’s some incredible honor. That’s some incredible honor, I’ll tell you what. There’s no greater honor. And are you proud of your husband? But he’s proud of you too. Oh, she’s proud of Trump, look at that. Thank you. I knew I liked her. I knew I liked her. Thank you both very much. Great honor. That’s the highest honor you can get.
 Former prisoner of war and Vietnam veteran, Captain Ken Wells, a real hero. Where is Ken? A real hero. Thank you. Thank you.
 Real tough one. Look at him, he’s tough. He’s a tough looking guy. Thank you. Thank you very much. Beautiful. You look great. Thank you. These are great people.
 And World War II hero and D-Day veteran, very, very brave, they say, Harold Frank. Hi, Harold. You’re looking good. Thank you, Harold. Thank you, Harold. Thank you. They said he’s a brave one. Thank you, Harold, you’re looking good. These guys look good. I don’t know. They go through all that, they come out, they look better than all of us. I don’t know. Something about the war, something about brave people, right? Military spouse, and don’t ever underestimate that is where it all begins. Somebody who’s incredible. Donna Dotson. Donna. Where’s Donna? Thank you, Donna thank you very much. Thank you, Donna. Great to have you. Thank you very much. And retired Sergeant Major Karen De la Vega. Karen, thank you. Thank you, Karen. Great people. Thank you all for your extraordinary service and it’s an honor to have you with us, really is, thank you very much.
 For 47 years, Joe Biden, viciously, repeatedly attacked black Americans. He decimated the black middle-class and called young black men super predators. To every black American vote for Trump. This is your one and only chance to show sleepy Joe Biden what you think of his decision to attack you, to insult you, to jail you and to betray you. I am fighting for you and got criminal justice reform, prison reform, Opportunity Zones with Tim Scott and funding for historically black colleges and universities. I got it done. Nobody else got it done.
 And with the exception of, and I use the word possibly, possible exception, but I could use it and maybe I won’t, I’ll keep it a little bit less controversial, with the exception of Abraham Lincoln, there has been no president that’s done more for the black community than Donald Trump. Nobody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in US history. Joe Biden has pledged to open borders. He’s actually talking about taking down the wall. Can you believe? “Let’s take down the wall and let everybody pour into our country.” He wants to take down. I know he said it. I don’t know. Maybe, but he did say let’s take down the wall. One of the biggest projects that we’ve ever done, you know, it’s a tremendous project. We’re up to over 400 miles. We’re going to be finished very soon. Over 400 miles. Designed to the specifications of the Border Patrol, who are great.
 Mass Amnesty wants to give them free healthcare. This is for illegal aliens and wants to keep deadly sanctuary cities. Your state has a sanctuary city. You know that, right? You have a sanctuary city, right? A very big one, actually, that doesn’t work very well. We believe our city should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not criminals aliens. The Biden-Harris plan would increase refugees from terrorist nations by a staggering 700%. This has been a great term. This has been a great term. No thank you, fellas. I’m not interested. I’m keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. If I have the approval of North Carolina, I will keep them out. We’re going to keep them out. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military. We have the greatest equipment, greatest people. 2.5 trillion. You think that was easy to get from the Democrats? Actually the wall was even tougher. The wall was tougher but we got. Do you notice once I got the wall started and got all the funding, won all the court cases against the Democrats, the press never talks about it anymore. They don’t talk about it. We had the best statistics, the best…
 And can you imagine during the pandemic, because Mexico’s very heavily unfortunately infected and it was a good thing that we had it up that’s why the numbers are so good. We also passed for our great vets, VA Choice and VA Accountability. Nobody thought that could happen. We obliterated 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We killed the leader of ISIS, al- Baghdadi is dead. Last week, I visited Fort Bragg where I presented the Presidential Unit Citation to the special forces team that achieved that historic victory. It was good. And we are keeping the name Fort Bragg, you do know that, right? Do you agree. They want cancel culture. We won two world wars out of Fort Bragg and we have other forts and we’re keeping it. We won two world wars out of Fort Bragg. And now they say, “Let’s change the name. Let’s change the name of Fort Bragg. We’ll pick somebody else. Do you have any good suggestions?” No, no. We have to keep. We have to keep. It’s our culture. It’s our heritage. So many victories, so many victories out of Fort Bragg. We also eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I recognize the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. 52 years they tried to get it. And instead of endless war in the Middle East we’re forging peace. They are lined up to come in.
 I said, “How did Obama and all of those that came before him do?” They told me they all used the same method. I said, “Really, I’m going to go the opposite method.” And it worked very nicely. No blood in the sand, no cost. Three very powerful countries already signed. We have many others. They’re standing on line, standing on line. And we’re bringing our troops back home. Our troops are coming back home. They’re coming back home. 19 years is enough. They serve as policemen. I said, “No, you have to get your own police department, I’m sorry.”
 A vote for me and the Republican party is a vote for the American dream. And in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China, which has already started. Can you imagine Biden saying we’re not going to our reliance? I mean, can you imagine? “We are going to end our reliance on you.” “Hey, hey we gave your son a billion and a half. What the hell are you telling me?” Okay, well, I don’t know, Senator, I think it would be tough for him, right? They wanted 10 million a year for his services, right? And then you say, “No, I’m not going to deal with China anymore.” Or “I’m going to be tough on China.”
 I’ve taken out many, many billions of dollars. We never did this in this country, not 25 cents. I just gave $28 billion from China to our farmers because they targeted our farmers. 28 billion and we had plenty of money left over, which went into the US Treasury. Thank you. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults for law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty and free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might and we will ensure peace through strength.
 We’re the envy of every country in the world. Our military now has the greatest equipment all made in the USA, but we have the greatest equipment in the world. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency and lower drug prices even more. We instituted a favored nation’s laws. We pay by far the most in the world. We are going to pay now the least in the world and nobody can believe I did it. And big pharma does not like me too much. They are not so happy with me. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman in the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools.
 We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of North Carolina. I do.
 And your tobacco growers are in good shape, by the way, please let them know, okay. Do you have any tobacco growers, please? They’re in good shape. They work hard. They were treated very rough. Tomorrow, you have the power to do so much for our country. You have the power to vote. So go out and vote. Unless you’re going to vote for somebody other than me, in which case, [inaudible 01:10:12]. Do you ever hear these politicians get up and they say, “You have the power to vote and it makes no difference if you vote for me or my opponent,” they’re such liars. Liars. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, get your boss, grab him by the tie, say, “Let’s go boss.” And get out and vote.
 From Greensboro to Charlotte, from Wilmington to Raleigh, from Asheville to right here in Fayetteville. Fayetteville. I love the name, Fayetteville. We inherit the legacy of American Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and to defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great, great, beautiful skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come. You will see that.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God and together with the incredible people of North Carolina, we have made America powerful again, military. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you. Go out and vote.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. What a crowd this is. Wow! Well, thank you very much. Hello Georgia. Hello Georgia. Two days. Can you believe it? Two days from now we’re going to win this state again. And we’re going to win four more great years in the White House.
 We have done a lot. We’ve done a lot together. It’s been a great relationship with Georgia. Thank you very much. With your vote, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our police, support our great military, protect your second amendment. [inaudible 00:02:35] Defend religious liberty, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase “Made in the USA.” That’s happening.
 Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. And it’s heading that way. Under my leadership, our economy is now growing at the fastest rate ever recorded, 33.1%. The fake news did not like talking about that number. We’d beat the number from 1952 and more than doubled it; much more than doubled it. They don’t love talking about numbers like that. They can’t believe it. We created a record 11.4 million jobs in the last five months. And while foreign nations are in a free fall, we are creating an economic powerhouse unrivaled anywhere in the world.
 A recent Gallup poll, just out, found that 56% of Americans say they are better off today than four years ago with Sleepy Joe and Obama. If Biden and Kamala. How about Kamala? I don’t think so. That’s not going to be your first woman president; that’s not going to happen. She’s further left than Crazy Bernie. He’s like a conservative compared to her. And the radical left gain power, the economy will collapse, and our country will go into a steep, mark my… well, we’re not going to have to worry about it okay. Steep depression. We don’t have to worry about it.
 I shouldn’t even be here, they say I have Georgia made, but you know what? I said, “I promised we have to be here.” David. No, they said, “Sir, you don’t have to come to Georgia. We have it made. It’s won, it’s well.” By the way, just go out and vote. Okay. Just go out and vote.
 Thank you very much. Thank you very much. No, they said this morning, “Sir, honestly, we can skip Georgia…” I’ve done four of these, I’m going to Florida for another one. You believe this? Wonderful. Oh, and I had such an easy life before this. It was so…
 But you know I’m happy, you know why? No administration, no president has done anything near what we’ve done in the first three and a half years. How about it? We’re helping our country. We’re rebuilding our military. It’s rebuilt. Two and a half trillion dollars. We’ve cut your taxes. The largest tax cut in history. His is going to be the… Explain this to me. His campaign is “We will raise your taxes more than any administration has ever raised it.” I don’t know. Somehow, David, that doesn’t play very well, does it? Huh? He wants to increase your taxes by 4 trillion dollars. Massively increase your regulations again. We cut your regulations more than any administration has ever done. More than any, whether it’s four years, eight years or in one case, more, closed down your factories, send your jobs overseas, destroy the suburbs.
 Will the women of the suburbs please vote for President Trump? [inaudible 00:06:15] And I keep hearing from the fake news, “The women of the suburbs don’t like Donald Trump.” And I’m saying to myself, “Well, I’m giving them safety, protection, and I terminated a regulation that will ruin the suburbs and ruin the value of your house. And you’ll be fleeing the suburbs. And no, I did a lot for the suburbs, I’ll tell you.” Thank you.
 That’s what I thought. That’s what I thought. That’s what I thought. I made a speech a couple of days ago and I said, “Women of the suburbs, please love me.” And they took it on CNN, they said, “He is begging for their support.” Women of the suburbs, I’ve done a lot. You do not want to have a project built next to your house. No, we’ve done a lot.
 They want to terminate religious liberty, eliminate school choice, outlaw private health care. Would you say it’s windy enough tonight? Would you say? It’s wonderful. I said, “Is there much wind?” “No, about 25 or 30 miles an hour, Sir.” Oh, that’s wonderful.
 Shred the second amendment, take away your guns and indoctrinate your children with hateful anti-American lies. Biden has vowed to abolish American oil, fracking, natural gas. You ever see a guy fracking? For a year and a half, he’s going, “There will be no fracking. There will be…” Then he goes to Pennsylvania. They say, “What about fracking?” And he goes, “What should I say?” Well, they say, “You’re going to have to totally change your stance because they have a million jobs, right? It’s a big part of Pennsylvania. It’s a big part of Texas. It’s a big part of this country. And you’re going to have to change.” So now he goes, first speech, he goes, “No, we are in total favor of fracking.” And the fake news doesn’t even ask him a question about it. I don’t think I could get away with it. I don’t think so.
 How about the other day? He walks past the press, the media, the fake news. And he walks past, “Sir, what flavor ice cream is that?” He’s walking out of an ice cream store. “It’s vanilla and chocolate.” They don’t ask me questions like that.
 It’ll cause massive layoffs, exploding energy prices and crippling blackouts, just like they have in California. They’re doing great with California energy, right? They have brownouts; they don’t want to call it blackouts, but it’ll end up being blackouts very soon. Biden’s energy ban will send every state from Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania into crushing poverty. And you know that, the whole thing is ridiculous. The Green New Deal AOC plus three, I don’t even think they ever took… Did they take even an environmental course? Ilhan Omar is a part of that deal. No, no, no. She loves our country very much. As luck… that’s why I’m going to win Minnesota because of her.
 As long as I’m president, we will remain number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. We are now number one. And something you haven’t heard very much of for ever, we are totally energy independent, isn’t that nice?
 I don’t think we’re going to let them turn that around on us. People that have no clue, especially Biden, he truly doesn’t have a clue. Our opponent’s agenda is a war on workers, a war on faith, and a war on our great police. Biden says he’s running as a proud Democrat. Well, of course he said, “I’m running as a proud Democrat for the Senate.” And I said, “He’s kidding, isn’t he?” But then he did it a second time. And I’m running as a proud American, okay?
 Thank you. Thank you very much. This is a lot of people here, I’ll tell you. We always have a lot of people, we really do. It’s like the spirit… wait till you see what’s going to happen with the Great Red Wave. And you know, I don’t know if you’ve been watching the results, but if you look at Florida, we’re looking very good. If you look at Iowa, we’re looking very good. If you look at North Carolina, we are looking great. If you look at Pennsylvania, we are looking very good. Oh, they’re going to be, they’re going to be some heads that are exploding.
 It would have been nice as… You know what would have been really nice though? If our Supreme Court could have ruled that everything has to be counted by the evening of our election, our grand election day. Wouldn’t that be nice? Instead of waiting around six days, eight days, nine days, giving them more time. If they want more time, let them put their ballots in early. They don’t have to wait till the end. Let’s give them an extra three days, and let’s take all the time you want. People want to know and you know, bad things happen in places like Pennsylvania and Nevada. We loved Nevada, but you have a governor there. Bad things can happen. That little intervening… Let’s take plenty of time. No, that’s a terrible ruling for our country. I don’t care. It’s a terrible ruling. It’s a shame.
 Joe Biden is a globalist who spent 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign Wars. Don’t worry, they’re all coming home. They’d been coming home; we’re down to very low numbers. He was a cheerleader for NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. That was another great deal we made. What a deal. China was flat-lined for years and years. And then they went like a rocket ship because of that stupid deal. Biden shipped your jobs in factories to China while raking in millions of dollars for him and his family, we find out. The only problem is the news doesn’t want to report it, and big tech doesn’t want to report it.
 No, big tech doesn’t want to report it. Do you ever see where they have trending? You know what they do? They take stories about me, if they can find anything bad, and then they make it worse. Trending Donald Trump did this. Trending… The most boring stories, I mean, with all the things happening. With affairs and this and that. They don’t want to hear trending Donald Trump. It’s a whole big hoax. It’s a big tech hoax, but we have some senators right here that are doing a lot about it. A lot about it. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who is bought and owned by China, okay? I mean, how is he going to… and by the way, we’ve taken in billions and billions of dollars.
 I mean, how is he going to do it? And by the way, we’ve taken in billions and billions of dollars. And you have farmers, a lot of farmers, I found that out with David, with David Perdue. We went down and they were affected a year and a half ago, very heavily affected by a hurricane. We took care of those farmers. Nobody else would have done it. We took care of those farmers. But you know what I did? $28 billion from China went to farmers, because they were targeted. Can you imagine Joe Biden saying to China? In fact, he actually said he’d take off the taxes and the tariffs that we charged. He said, “We’ll take them off.” But now we know why, because his son walked away with a billion and a half dollars in management fees.
 About how about where the son said he wants 10 million a year for recommendation purposes? You know who he’s going to recommend? His father. His father is going to be recommended. Or the son, who was out of a job, had no money, and then the father became Vice President, and all of a sudden the son is going to be put on the board of Burisma from Ukraine for $183,000. $183,000 a month. Who would not take that job? Who would not take that job? We said, “What’s your experience?” He said, “I have none.” “What do you know about energy?” “I have none.” There’s a young person right here, probably seven or eight years old, has more knowledge of energy than, where is Hunter?
 Then he said he wants a $3 million upfront payments also. But how about Russia? So Russia, you know “Russia, Russia, Russia”? The laptop from hell. Russia did a Schiff, watermelon face, Schiff, Adam Schiff. He said the other day, “Here we go again.” He said the laptop was created by Russia. This is, we are so screwed up. And he always says it in the halls of Congress, because you can’t be prosecuted for lying. You ever notice? He doesn’t say it outside. No, he got three and a half … Man, is it windy? Whoa. I wanted to show you how great my hair was. I was having a great hair day. But this is a lot of wind. And besides that, everyone else has a hat on. Everyone else has one. So if you can do it, I can do it too. Then he got three and a half million cash from the mayor of Moscow’s wife. She very generously gave him three and a half million dollars in cash.
 So when I asked during the debate, did anyone see the debates, by the way? I felt like Perry Mason. It is absolutely incredible. Look, the last question I said, “Wait a minute, does that mean you want to get rid of energy? You want to get rid of it all?” “Yes, I’d like to transition out.” I said, “This is the biggest moment.” That was like Perry Mason, the last one. And even anchor, Kristen Welker, who actually treated me fairly compared to Chris Wallace, who wouldn’t let us answer a question, actually, Chris Wallace came in third that evening, we won, no, I would say that Sleepy Joe probably came in second, Chris Wallace was a deep third, but Kristen Welker, who did, I mean, her inclination is not for us, but she looked up and when he said that stupid answer, she said, “Why did you say that?” Because she’s on his side.
 Did you see that? “Why did you say that? Oh, you ruined my evening now.” Nah, she was fair to me. She really was. I called her, I said, “That was very professional. I appreciated it.” No, most people said she didn’t treat me well. Relatively speaking, she treated me fantastically. In 2016, Georgia voted to fire his corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first, If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician, thank you. That’s right, right? If I don’t know is played by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I fight for you harder and meaner and stronger than any President has ever fought for you. That I can tell you. That swamp is deep and it’s vicious and they keep coming at you. But we’re there and we’re going to win. We’re going to win.
 Deep swamp. It’s a deep swamp, but we’re winning, and I’ll tell you what, we’re going to win. I mean, I wish they didn’t delay the whole deal, but maybe we can win by enough they can call it on Tuesday night. I just came in, and the beautiful thing about Air Force One, good looking plan, isn’t it, the beautiful thing about Air Force One, you have more televisions than you have in anything. They have televisions on the floors, on the ceilings, and one of the shows had very strongly, they said, “Do you see what’s happening?” And they go, “What? What’s happening?” “Trump is way up with African Americans, way up with Hispanic Americans.” He goes, “What’s happening?” And the votes came in, because you people are going to go and vote mostly on election day, which is good. That’s called the red wave. Don’t let anything stop you. Nothing. That’s called the red way.
 But these people, they send in their ballots and we’re practically even. We’re supposed to be 20, 30, 40 point points behind. And then we make it up and at the end we get it over the line, right? So, in Florida, we’re practically, even. They’re in big trouble. They’re saying, “This isn’t good. This isn’t good.” There are those that have already projected that we’re going to win Florida, that we’re going to win certain. This is not working out like they thought, I think we’re going to do even better than we did four years ago. And you know what? I never thought I’d say it, but this is even more of an important election. Thank you very much. I love you too. I don’t know who you are. I don’t know, male or female, I can’t even tell. But whoever you are, I love you too. This is going to be the most important election in my opinion, because our country can never be a socialist country. And that’s what they want to do.
 This election is a choice between a depression and a boom. It’s a choice between a deadly Biden lockdown … He always talks about locking down, “I want the lockdown. I want to follow science.” Some guy walks in, I think he should lock it down. No, let’s knock down a $12 trillion economy. No, we’re not going to do that. It’s also we come up a safe vaccine that is ending the pandemic. By the way, it ends with or without. We’re rounding the turn. But we have the greatest companies in the world and they’re all set and we’re coming up. We will mass distribute the vaccine in just a few short weeks and it will quickly help us to eradicate it. It’s going to go anyway. It’s going anyway. We are rounding that. And by the way, they have therapeutics that work. Look what they do.
 I don’t know. I like to think I did it, because I’m in perfect physical shape, but I’m a young man. Like Baron Trump, he had it. “Sir, Barron tested positive.” White House doctor, Sean, a great doctor, he said, “Sir, your son, Barron,” 14 years old, very tall young man, Hi, Barron, how you doing? He’s great. But he’s strong. And Sean came in to see me, “Sir, Barron tested positive.” I said, “That’s not good.” “Oh, he’ll be fine, sir.” I said, about 12 minutes later, “Sean, how’s Barron doing?” “Sir, he’s fine. It’s all gone.” See, they have a strong … I don’t mean 12. You know what they’ll do? They’ll say, “He’s exaggerating. It took a half a day.” The fake news, everything you say. When I talked about illegal immigration, Joe Biden wants to give everything you can give to illegal immigrants, which will bring millions and millions of people in.
 So I said, “You can’t give them healthcare. You can’t give them education.” But Joe Biden promised them, every one of them, a free Rolls-Royce. CNN said, “This is a terrible thing. That’s not a true statement.” No, they can’t take a little bit of fun. But you know what? We’re in a position, we’re doing so well, we could afford to have fun. The one thing that happened, the one thing that happened that we can never, ever forget is what China did to our country. We can never forget. We shouldn’t have one death. But we closed it up. How would you like to be in my position? I just created, with a lot of people including yourselves, the greatest, strongest economy in the world, and now I had to shut it down. And we did the right thing. We shut it down. We figured it out. We have to protect our senior citizens. We protect, we know all about it, and we now have all these therapies and in my opinion cures.
 I mean, I think it’s cures, I think frankly. But we’ve done a great job. But how would you like to be shutting down the greatest economy ever? And now we’re building it back up, and we’re not talking about a V, we’re talking about a super V, based on all of the numbers that you see. Housing numbers, automobile numbers. 33.1, the highest ever by more than double. Joe Biden is promising to postpone the vaccine, delay therapies, and turn America into a prison state, lock it down, locking you in your home while letting Antifa and other far left rioters look letting Antifa, Antifa is bad news, you do know that, right, bad news, let them run free. You can’t go to church, right? You can’t go to your schools. You can’t do any of this stuff. By the way, your Governor, I don’t know if he’s here. Is he here? Brian? Where is he? Because Brian did a hell of a job. He said, “We’re going to let it stay open.” And Georgia is doing very well.
 The Biden lockdown will mean no school, no graduation, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no Easter, no 4th of July, no future for American youth. Other than that, he’s doing quite a good job, right? Sleepy Joe Biden. You know what? In prime time, he was never a smart guy. Everybody knows it. And he was never a nice guy. And if he was a nice guy, I wouldn’t talk the way I talk about him. But he is definitely not the guy. He was in primetime, we called them 1% Joe. He always got 1% when he ran. Now, he’s got half left. He’s got about a half at best. And he wins. Is this a screwed up business you people are in or what? What a crazy business. A vote for Biden is a vote for lockdowns, layoffs, and misery. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family well, and freedom to live your life, then go cast your ballot for a man named Trump. We’re doing a job. We’re a job together. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I wish they’d show. Could the camera’s please span this crowd? They never do it. They never do it. And they never show Joe. So today he did a conference with Barack Hussein Obama. And you know what? The crowd was actually smaller. They’re not drawing flies. They’re not drawing. And they never show that crowd. But they should show these crowds, because in the history of politics, I think in the history of anything, including music, and I do this without a guitar. That’s very tough. We don’t have a guitar. Look at these crowds. It is one of the great phenomenons. They don’t like talking about it. They said, “Is he a great public speaker?” “Oh, I don’t really think so.” Well, what the hell am I getting 35,000 people? Today, I said to the great Hope Hicks … does anybody know Hope Hicks?
 Or Kayleigh? Where’s Kayleigh? Kayleigh’s great. We have such great people. Or our Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, do you know him? He loves these rallies. Took me three years to get them out of Congress. I tell you what, he’s doing a great job. So easy, it’s such an easy job, because we’re dealing with such nice people on the other side. But you know what? It’s going to all come together with success. I tell this, it was coming together.
 … success. I tell this, it was coming together. We were getting calls. It was coming together. Believe it or not, we were getting calls from the other side, people that you wouldn’t believe we’d be getting calls from. You know what? Let’s sit down. And then all of a sudden we got hit with the China Plague. And now we’re back to the drawing boards and next year is going to be one of the greatest economic years and all of that. But I’ll tell you what. Success, great success like we had best, if you look, African American numbers, Hispanic American numbers, women, Asian American numbers, high school diploma, no high school diploma, MIT, first in your class. Everybody was doing good and it was coming together and we would have unified, I’m telling you. And we’re going to have another chance at it because we are going to have a stronger year next year, because we have a great foundation and you see the kind of numbers coming in.
 You had your best year last year ever. You’re going to have an even better year next year. And like all these caps, Make America Great Again, we’re going to change them. We’re going to say, “Make America Great Again, Again.” But you don’t have to believe me on Biden. I brought a very expensive little tape for you to watch. Where is it? Lot of money.
 We saved so much time. We could run another couple of minutes. I could just say, “Bye-bye, I’m going to Florida.” I’m doing another one of these in a little while. The fake news can’t believe it. They’re exhausted. Look at all of them back there. Those cameras, they’re sagging. This is their fourth one, and all the crowds are big and strong and they love our country. They all love our country. We have a movement the likes of which this country has never seen before. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone. So joining us tonight. No, we have a movement the likes of which this country has never seen before, never seen. And you thought it was big four years ago, this is much bigger. This is much bigger. You know why? Because I’ve really lived up to what we said, and even more so.
 One of them said, he’s actually the only guy I’ve ever seen, “He’s done more than he promised,” which is true. That’s not a typical politician. But joining us tonight are warriors. Great people, people that I work with all the time, people that I like and people that I respect. Actually, a couple of them I don’t like that much, but I respect them and they do a good job, which is much more important. But one I do like and respect a lot, he’s respected like you wouldn’t believe all over Washington. People go to him for advice and he gets it done, Senator David Perdue. Stand up, David. Will you please make sure he gets in without a runoff? Do you mind? The guy he’s running against is nothing. I beat him running, he was running for Congress against somebody I’m going to introduce in just a second, but we beat him and we beat him easily. Now, he’s running for the Senate. You’re supposed to win at a certain level before you do this. David’s one of the best there is in the whole country. And you’ve got to make sure that David Perdue wins, okay?
 A woman that I got to know a little while ago, and she is strong and tough and wonderful, and she’s done a really great job, but I want to thank her very much, Kelly Loeffler. Great job, Kelly. Great job. A man who is very close to Kelly, thinks she’s wonderful, admits that she’s great, and she admits that he’s great, and I’m stuck right in the middle, and he’s somebody, and he really is, he’s a warrior, he was a warrior with the fake impeachment witch hunt deal. And you couldn’t have asked for better. He’s an incredibly talented guy and a good guy. And I’m just sitting back and watching these two, and whoever it is, you have two winners, you have two winners, Doug Collins. Thank you, Doug. You think it’s easy being me, right? We’re going to have two winners. We got two winners there. Go out and vote and let’s see what happens. But whoever it is, we got to two really talented people.
 Representative Rick Allen. Great job, Rick. Great job. These are warriors. Barry Loudermilk. Barry. Oh, I liked that, Barry. I like that. Thank you, Barry. Great job you do. We appreciate all that support from these guys. They really are, they fight hard, and they win. They know how to win. We were 197 to nothing, right? 197 on the fake impeachment. I’m the only guy in the world that got impeached over a very good phone call. Can you believe? I think you’re supposed to do something wrong to get impeached, but they took care of it. Former Governor for eight years and a very, very popular guy and so good at the farming business I made him Secretary of Agriculture, and we gave the farmers $28 billion, thank you very much, China, Sonny Perdue. Thank you, Sonny. And Lieutenant Governor Jeff Duncan. Hi, Jeff. Good, Jeff. Good job, Jeff. Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black. Thank you. Great, Gary. Good job you’re doing. Oh, here’s a guy. I love this guy. And I guess he’s not at least yet a Republican. Can you believe it?
 But he’s the hottest guy in politics. I see him on television. Everyone loves him. The ratings go up. I shouldn’t say Democrat. So I refuse to say it. State Representative Vernon Jones. Man, oh man. Great job. I love this guy. He’s got guts. He saw me a couple of times. He said, “That’s what we need.” I mean, we can’t have Sleepy Joe. Thank you. And he’s long before Joe. He’s a great gentleman too. He’s a great person. Georgia GOP Chair David Schaffer. Thank you, David. How are we doing, David? Are we winning? Are we going to win big? Can you imagine where they say, “Don’t come tonight”? Can you imagine? I’m going to call them out? You had people in line for two days. Let’s call them up and say, “We don’t need you because we’re going to win Georgia.” But you’ve got to go vote. You never know. It’s called politics. You never know. Got to be careful. Get out and vote. Let’s really send a resounding note to Washington.
 And a friend of mine and a great woman, and I hope she wins because she deserves it. She works hard and her opponent is absolutely terrible. She’s a total puppet for Nancy Pelosi, Crazy Nancy. Congressional candidate Karen Handel. Karen. You’re doing well, Karen, got to win. Opponent is zippo. Rich McCormick. Rich. There’s Rich. Good luck, Rich. I heard it’s good. Angela Stanton King. Thank you. I heard you’re all doing well. Somebody that gets a little more publicity than I do, Marjorie Taylor Greene right here from Northwest Georgia. Oh boy. I don’t want to mess with her. No, she’s great. Every one of them has my full and complete endorsement. Go out and vote for them and let them all come into Congress. Really great. That’s great. For 47 years, Sleepy Joe Biden viciously and repeatedly attacked Black Americans. He decimated the Black middle class and called young Black men “super predators”, and they never forgot it. They never forgot it. To every Black American, I’m asking you to go out and vote. You can send a message on Tuesday to the corrupt Democrat establishment. This is your one and only chance to show Sleepy Joe what you think of his decision to attack you, insult you, jail you, and betray you. And that’s what he did. That’s what he did exactly. Some people won’t say it like I say it, but I’ll say it. And you know it. You know it. I’m fighting for you. And I got approved things that they never thought, that Obama didn’t even try. They never had a chance. And we had to twist a lot of arms, didn’t we, David. We had to twist a lot of arms. Criminal justice reform, prison reform opportunities zones, and funding for historically Black colleges and universities.
 I always say that with a possible exception I like to keep the word possible in, with the exception of Abraham Lincoln, I have done more for the Black community than any other President. I say it. I said it during the debate. I say it, I say it proudly. And very few people can dispute it. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history, including over 400 miles of completed wall. And it’ll be finished very soon. Strongest border we’ve ever had. And by the way, Mexico is paying for the wall, so we get that one clear. It’s all done. Joe Biden wants to open borders, he wants mass amnesty, and he would make every community in America into a sanctuary city. I believe our country should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal alien. The Biden-Harris plan would also increase refugees a staggering 700%. This is Crazy Bernie, one of the greatest loses in the history of politics.
 No, he keeps losing and then he goes back and he says but he’s running again in four years, don’t worry about it. He’ll be back. One thing about him, you can’t get rid of him. I like that about Crazy Bernie. Opening the flood Gates to radical Islamic terrorism. No thank you. I’m keeping the terrorists and jihadists and violent extremists the hell out of our country, if it’s okay with you. If it’s okay with Georgia, if it’s okay with Georgia. Well, I’ll tell you what. Thank you. I saw some very good numbers today. I appreciate it. But get out and vote. So, in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. And we’re doing it. We’ve already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. With God’s help, we will …
 With God’s help, we will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms, your second amendment. We will defend your second amendment. We will maintain Americans and rivaled military might. We are the envy of the world with our military. We had an obsolete, exhausted, tired military. We have totally rebuilt our military and we will ensure peace through strength. Greatest equipment in the world, all made in the USA. And a lot of it, I hate to say it’s made right here in Georgia. We will end surprise medical billing, require prices transparency, already approved and signed. January 1st that kicks in. Lower drug prices even more. We’re going to favorite nations where we get the lowest price in the world. And the drug pu… They do not like me too much is big, they call it big pharma, big pharma is not a big fan of Trump. They don’t like what I did.
 But you know what? It’s the only way you break that whole cartel. You have to break it. You’re going to have drug prices going down 50, 60, 70%. And they’re going more commercials on me than sleepy Joe Biden. In fact, he keeps saying, who’s doing those great commercials. It’s the drug companies. All right, now you’re going to have tremendous price guts on drugs and prescription drugs. We’re going to protect your social security and your medicare, which they won’t do because when they allow all of these illegals to come in, it’ll destroy your social security and your medicare. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will add the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.
 NASA is the talk of the space world. And we also have space force by the way. I never even used to talk about that. I never talked about that during, I realized after I was president that we needed it when I saw what was going on with Russia, China, we needed it. Space force first new, if you think, first in 75 years. Last was the air force, right? Brand new, brand new, and it’s doing great. And everybody wants to go into space force. 75 years since air force. And now we have space force and it’ll be one of our most important. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our school. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, in God we trust.
 For years you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Georgia. Better believe it. And I want to thank Herschel Walker because I think he’s great. I used to watch him when he was in college, he was like a man playing with children. He would catch, he would carry that ball for 10 or 12 yards. That was what he had a bad day, right? 10 or 12. He made a lot of quarterbacks look genius. Here Herschel, here’s the ball. Here Herschel here’s the ball. He’s the greatest. One of the greatest. Where is Herschel, is he around here?
 I think I love Herschel Walker. He’s been out there and he is one of the greatest athletes. I think he said he does a thousand pushups a day and he is just something special. He’s been a great friend of mine for a long time for, I don’t want to tell you how long, but, so I just want to pay my respects because he loves this part of the world. He loves Georgia and Georgia loves him. You know, they did the ballot. Remember they did a ballad to Herschel Walker. You just hand him the ball, you win the game. Here Herschel 10 yards, 12 yards, 40. What did he average today? He averaged 11 yards of carry. Well, that’s pretty good. Hard to lose those games. So thank you very much Herschel you’re watching. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 And Georgia loves your Herschel and I do too. Two days from now, America’s fate is in your hands. Your vote can defeat the Washington swamp and the corrupt media right there. Once and for all. They have to get out to vote. You’re going to probably want to get, I always say early vote, early vote. But our people love to vote on election day, Tuesday. So go out and vote. That red wave is going to be all, it’s going to be the darker the world. It’s going to be the talk of the world.
 It’s going to be the talk of the world. From Atlanta. You know it, you feel it, you see it and you know, organically, these things are just rising up. 5,000 votes all over the place. And I mean, nobody’s ever seen thousands of cars. What do they have? Something 90 or a hundred miles long of cars, trucks, tractors. In Iowa they had thousands of tractors on this massive farm. Now it’s something’s going on. Never happened before. Nothing like this has happened before. By the way, crowds like this have never happened before. This never happened before.
 My competitor, he’s got those circles, those crazy circles. And he can’t fill them up. There’s five of them. So he has to press please come down and take one. From Atlanta to Augusta, from Savannah to Columbus and from Athens to right here at Rome, we inherit the legacy of red blooded American patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears to defend our country and our freedom. Great people. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, right? Raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. The best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Georgia. We love Georgia. I love Georgia. We love Georgia. Thank you. That’s really an honor. Don’t keep doing that. You’re going to make me cry. I said, they’ll put up, the President broke down in tears tonight as they chanted we love you. No, we don’t want, I mean, I guess it’s okay, but somehow we don’t want to, we don’t want to have a crying president I don’t think. Right now we don’t want, we have too many things to do. But I do. It’s never been heard. That chant has never been heard politically so I appreciate it very much. Believe me. We have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, Georgia. Go out and vote.
 Oh, what a crowd. This is some crowd. Wow. This is a big crowd. Well, thank you very much. This is a great crowd. We have a lot of great crowds. It’s something happening. You’re going to see that on the third, although the Supreme Court would probably like to delay it for a long time it looks like, but we’re going to have a tremendous victory. It’s going to be a victory like none other. It’s the most election of our lives. Hello, Michigan. How are you doing, Michigan? How are you doing? It’s cold, but I feel very warm in this group. This a great group. Four days from now, we are going to win this state and we are going on to win four more great years in the White House. We’re going to have it. We’re going to have it. Unless there’s something that we don’t see. I’m watching these Biden rallies. It’s like there’s nobody. Of course, he says that they want to do it that way on purpose. The problem is nobody shows up. They were putting on the screen our rally, that’s you, you’re all famous, very famous. And his rally, there was nobody. At least he’s doing a rally. He got out of the basement so that’s good.
 With your support, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut your regulations. Support our great police, support our military, defend our borders, protect the second amendment, which is under siege. Protect always religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the wonderful phrase. You know what it is? Made in the USA. That’s happening more and more. Thanks to our historic campaign to slash red tape and mobilize industry. We will deliver a safe vaccine to the American people in just a number of weeks, a couple of weeks. It’s happening very fast, great companies. The greatest companies of their kind in the world. And we’ve got plenty of them there too.
 Seniors will be first. We make seniors first, right? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. They say, “Will you be the first one to take it? You know it’s a no-win situation. If I say yes, “They’ll say he demanded to be first.” If I say no, they’ll say, “He had no courage.” Now we’re going to take care of our seniors first. We’re going to take care of our doctors and frontline workers, everybody. And by the way, without it, we’re still rounding the corner. We have it, but without it, we round the corner and it will be available free. We’re doing the vaccine free. And the reason is that this wasn’t your fault. This wasn’t anyone’s fault. This was China’s fault.
 Just remember it. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus much more quickly and end the pandemic quickly, quickly, quickly, because we want to have our life restored. Just a normal. That’s all we want. That’s all we want, normal. We just want normal. Bring us back seven months. That’s what we want, right? And that’s what the whole world wants. Look what’s happening in Europe. It’s terrible. It’s terrible. What China has done to this world and just remember it, just you remember it. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see what’s happening.
 33.1%. Nobody can blame you. They can’t believe it. They don’t like talking about it. You know they don’t like talking about it. They have a new thing going. It’s called … Thank you. Thank you. You hear that, Ben Carson? You hear that, Ben? I’ll tell you. Nobody’s ever heard that before politically. Maybe for Ben Carson. I don’t know, maybe. I love Ben Carson. Thank you, Ben and Candy. Thank you. Thank you, Candy.
 Joe Biden is promising a long, dark, painful winter. Did you see him at the debate? Did anybody see the debate by any chance? No, he said, “A long, dark winter.” Oh, that’s great. That’s wonderful. That’s just what our country needs is a long, dark winter and a leader that talks about it. I didn’t have the privilege of going to my basement in the White House. I didn’t have the privilege of going to a beautiful room on the second or third floor and staying there for a year and a half because I’m president of the United States. So I didn’t have that. I had to do my job.
 And I said, “You know, I could catch this thing. And if I do, I do, and I’m going to get better fast.” I didn’t know I was going to get better that fast. That was pretty good. That was like in and out. And I had a dose. I wasn’t feeling great, but I got better. And it used to be they would say, “You have lifetime immunity.” You’re immune. Now it’s different. Because it’s me they say, “I’m good for four months.” Okay? They brought it down from lifetime to four months, but that’s okay. I’ll take it. But you know what? You have to do your job. You have to get back. You have to open up your states, right? You have to open up your states.
 We got to get our governor to open up our state here, don’t we? Ah, don’t worry. On November 4th, they’ll announce all these states, all these Democrat run states will be open. Not me. Not me see. They blame me every time that happens. Every time I mentioned her name, Crooked Hillary’s name, Joe Biden’s name frankly. And where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? There’s Hunter right there. He’s out by the truck. Look at him make a couple of bucks Hunter. Hunter’s done very well for an unemployed person for years. For years unemployed and then he hit pay dirt. His father became vice president and Joe had pay dirt too. That’s part of the problem.
 I’m delivering the great American comeback. That’s what we’re doing. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. Best unemployment numbers, best everything. We had 160 million people employed. We were never even close to that number. And then one day we saved two million lives. We had to close it up. How about that decision? Oh, how horrible to have to make it. We understood the disease. We learned the disease. We have to protect our seniors, especially if they have problems with the heart or diabetes. We opened it up and now we’re at a level. I used to talking about the V, this is a super V.
 This is the biggest number, 33.1. And the news doesn’t want to talk about it because it’s positive. They only want to talk about negative when it comes to us. But 33.1, the biggest number in our country’s history by like double, but it’s much more than double. And you’d have to go back to 1952 to get anywhere close, but you know what close is? About a 17-point spread. This election is a matter of economic survival for Michigan because Joe Biden. Look at what they did during their eight years. And you know I said during the debate, 91 to nine, 91 to nine. You know what that means? That was a poll. How did Trump do in the debate? 91% for Trump, nine.
 Nine sisters. Look at these beautiful sisters, huh? They like Trump, but I liked them. They even have a Trump flag. Look at that Trump flag. That’s beautiful. It’s so beautiful. And you know we’re working very hard with Little Sisters of the Poor, right? You know about that. Your friends. That’s great. That’s great. It’s great to have you. Thank you very much.
 Joe Biden is going to lock down your state, wipe out your factories, ship out your jobs, bring things to China whatever they can, punish your family with a trillion. Think of this. A trillion dollars times four, $4 trillion tax hike. We gave you the biggest tax reduction in the history of our country. That’s the good news. The bad news is he wants to give you the biggest tax hike in the history of our country.
 He wants to eliminate private healthcare. We have 180 million people who have private health care. They’ve fought for it all their lives. They have great, great healthcare. He wants to end it and it’s not going to happen. We’re not going to let it happen and send your state into a very deep recession. But see, I think it’s worse. I think it’s depression. I just hate to use the D word. Let me just tell you something. How good have I done in bringing car companies here to Michigan? You went 42 years without a car plant. You were losing all your plants. 12 years ago, I was named Man of the Year of Michigan. Can you believe it? Long before I thought about it.
 And I got up and I made a speech. I said, “You’re losing all your car business. Somebody gave me a list. You lost 32% of your car business to Mexico and other places.” And now we’re bringing it all back. You have many, many factories now under construction, expansions of existing. You haven’t had that ever. And then Biden. And remember this, I only ran because of Biden and Obama. If they did a good job, I wouldn’t have run. And I guess I wouldn’t have won either, but I wouldn’t have run. They did a lousy job. I watched them now. “I’m going to do this. I’m going to do that.” What the hell didn’t he do it? Why didn’t he do it?
 Sleepy Joe and that was when he was a little bit better, a little bit more awake. He’s going to do what he hasn’t done in 47 years. I’m going to do it. That was so easy that debate because he hit me with, “I am going to do this.” And I just kept saying, Joe, “Why didn’t you do it?” And it was three and a half years ago. It wasn’t like a long time. It was three and a half years ago. Biden has vowed to abolish the entire US energy industry, right? No fracking. Guy went for a year and a half. No fracking, no fracking and then he goes to Pennsylvania. “Of course, we’re going to frack.” And the press, the fake news never asks him about it. No energy and you’re going to have gas prices.
 This is not great for selling your beautiful cars. Gas prices of $6 and $7. Right now it’s nice to be under $2, isn’t it? You never thought you’d see that. You never thought you’d see that. Biden’s running made America’s most liberal Senator. She makes Bernie look like a conservative. Crazy Bernie is like a conservative compared to her. She even Kamala, you have to pronounce it exactly right, otherwise she gets very upset. Even though she can’t pronounce it right. You saw that the other day.
 I think that was actually, that was on the great Laura Ingraham Show. Actually, I watched that. And I do believe Laura Ingraham is here someplace. Where is Laura? Where is she? Where is Laura? I can’t recognize you. Is that a mask? No way. Are you wearing a mask? I’ve never seen her in a mask. Look at you. Whoa, she’s being very politically correct. Whoa, whoa. I’ve never seen. Laura Ingraham. She’s fantastic. Thank you, Laura.
 Ah yes. I’ve never seen that before, but even sponsored the ruinous Green New Deal. How about that? Knowing nothing about the environment. It’ll cost a $100 trillion. Does you know what a 100 trillion? Let me put it this way. You could take all the countries in the world, that can’t afford it. While I’m president, America will proudly remain energy independent. You know we’re independent now. We don’t need to be going all over the world. We don’t need to be going all over the world.
 Biden will eradicate the economy. I will eradicate the virus and make the economy better than it’s ever been. That’s where we were. Now we’re doing it again. And let’s face it, he’s shot. Do you agree with that? I can say that. I’m not a fan of his, never was. He was never known as the smart one in the Senate. He was a touchy-feely guy, a little personality. He had a good personality. Now the personality’s gone and a lot of other things are gone. He’ll deliver poverty, misery, depression. I will deliver jobs, jobs, jobs, good ones too. Yesterday it was announced that last quarter when our economy, you know when this was announced, it was a tremendous announcement. The problem with it was that we didn’t get the kind of coverage that we should’ve. So in the history, think of it, in the history of our country, GDP went up to 33.1 in the history. And it was hardly mentioned. It’s amazing.. a friend of mine, very smart said to me, “Oh, they won’t talk about it.” It’s never been done before, right? “They won’t talk about it because they don’t want you to win because they’re sick and they’re corrupt. They don’t want you to win.”
 In the last five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million jobs. The most jobs in a short period of time ever created. And we also built the greatest economy in history and now we’re doing it again. See all those hats? Make America great again again. Make America great again again. But if Biden wins, the recovery will end and a long economic nightmare. Just like he said on the debate, “You’re going to have a dark winter.” That was really depressing. It was even depressing even though he did so badly in the debate, I was depressed because I said, “It’s such a depressing thing he said.”
 I like the last statement the best, right? Wasn’t that the best? We said, “That means you don’t want oil.” “Yes, we are going to get off oil.” I said, “I felt like Perry Mason.” You know it’s always that last question. It’s always the last question you know the guy, “Yes, I’m guilty. I’m guilty.” And then they end the show or they go to a commercial. I said, “This is the biggest thing that happened tonight.” And even Kristen Welker who I thought did a fair job. Okay? I really did. A lot of people thought she was much tougher on me, but that we expect. Okay?
 And she looked at him and she goes because she’s on his side, not his side, she’s on a Democrat radical left side, but she still did a relatively fair job. She said, “Why did you say that?” It’s like why? Like, “Why the hell did you say that? What the hell is wrong? I’m protecting you all night and now you end the debate. Can we keep it going for another 20 minutes?” No, I didn’t want to do that. Joe Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing new jobs, opening your borders. He wants open borders. You don’t have borders, you don’t have a country.
 And sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. We’re bringing them all back home, many of them home. Very, very few left. Were bringing them home. Got to fight the military-industrial complex. Eisenhower would talk about it all the time. The military-industrial complex. They don’t like them coming home, but they’ve been brought home and Afghanistan. 19 years I think as long enough, but we’re serving as policemen, right? We got the greatest soldiers in the world. We’re serving as policemen. They have to have their own policemen. We have our own policemen. They’re the greatest people we have, right? The greatest.
 They’re the greatest people we have, right? The greatest. He’s a diehard globalist who cares nothing for the working people. He’s never cared for the working people. China’s been ripping you off for years, now you know why. He gets paid by China. He repeatedly tried to cut Medicare and Social Security. Over the years, Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, sending your auto jobs all over the place, but in particular to Mexico. Mexico is a big auto monster right now. USMCA, we did such a good job on that one.
 He voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. One of the worst things that ever happened to our country. The best thing that ever happened to China. They were flatlined, and then they joined and they went like a rocket ship. Thank you very much, Joe. Great job you did, Joe. Gutting your industries to finance China’s rise. You see it. They still have empty buildings around. From your state in particular.
 Half of all of Michigan auto manufacturing jobs were eliminated. Think of it. You lost 50% of your jobs because of these guys. It’s him and his group. And then he says, “We’re going to do this.” He’ll come and say, “Yes, we did this.” He did nothing. He destroyed your industry. But I brought it back and you are doing great. And now, amazingly, and I still haven’t figured this, one auto production’s much higher than it was before the pandemic. Could somebody in the auto business please explain that one to me? Because I’m taking full credit for it, but even I don’t get that one. I think you’re at 130%. You’re at 130%.
 Look at that sea of people, I hope they can hear me over there. Housing starts and housing sales. It’s incredible. But the auto, it’s at a number that nobody can believe. You’re doing good. In other words, you’re all doing good. It’s a pandemic and you’re doing good. You got to get this governor. You got to get her to open. I am so tired of watching her husband go sailing. He wants to go sailing. He’s saying, “Darling, open up this state. I want to go sail.” But he was doing it before. And fortunately he got caught. Remember, he got caught? His neighbors turned him in. Can you believe it?
 At every turn… I don’t think she likes me too much. What do you think? Do you think she likes me? I don’t think she likes me too much. And I’ve done a great job for her. You know what, on COVID, the China Virus, I’ve done a phenomenal job for her.
 At every turn Biden twisted knife into the back of Michigan workers and workers all over the country. In 2016, Michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first, if that’s okay. Is that okay? If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought for the great people of this country.
 I’m not just running against sleepy Joe Biden, I’m running against the left wing media, the big tech giants. You see how crooked they are. How crooked are they? They made a mistake by not putting it… Here, you have the biggest story there is, corruption by Joe Biden. Forget about the son, by Joe Biden. But the son, the same thing. Look, even if Joe didn’t get the 10%, or the 50%, that he was promised, listen to this. The son walks in. He had nothing. He had no experience. He gets a job for 130,000 a month on Burisma, and he gets, they say, a $3 million upfront payment. That sounds reasonable. Would anybody else take that job? A month. And he knew nothing about energy. Other than that, it sounded fine.
 Then he goes to China, he picks up $1.5 billion, he gets fees on that. That’s millions of dollars a year. And then they give him three and a half million from Moscow. The mayor of Moscow’s wife gives him three and a half million. You don’t even hear about this, because they refuse… In fact, they just turned the cameras off. They refuse…
 You can’t have a scandal if they don’t report it. So the Times and the Washington Post and all of the fake news, CNN, look, they turned the cameras off. [crosstalk 00:04:50]. It’s a terrible thing. They turned the damn cameras off [crosstalk 00:24:04].
 You know what happened? They go, “We’re here live at Joe Biden..” He’s doing a thing. There’s nobody there. I’m looking. They’re showing the sea of people, 25,000 people. They’re showing it’s like a sea, and the other one their looking and there’s nobody there. But they’ve gone to that rally, and Fox has gone to. I don’t know what the hell happened to Fox. What happened to Fox? Boy oh boy.
 Well, we still have a few great ones at Fox. We still have a few great ones. It’s not like it used to be. Biden is the… That’s one of the biggest differences between this campaign and the campaign from four years ago. We’re doing better now than we ever did. There’s more enthusiasm. The crowds are much bigger. There’s more enthusiasm. But Fox is the big difference. Somewhere along the line we lost Fox, and that’s okay. That’s all right. But that’s the big difference.
 The big techs, I’ll tell you, the big techs are much worse. When I heard how bad they were and I heard you can’t win without them, they’re so powerful. And then we won. I said, “Why are they powerful?” Now they’ve gone totally nuts.
 Mark Morgan, one of our top people in the border, we’ve had a great border, he was showing how great the wall is. You know, we’re almost finished with the wall and how it’s working. And he said the success, you’ve probably heard this, he said the tremendous success that we’ve had… And all he’s doing is he’s not talking as a politician. He’s so proud of the job because people aren’t getting into our country, murderers and rapists and all, they’re not coming into our country anymore.
 We’re working very closely with Mexico. They have 27,000 troops on the border. And Mark Morgan is explaining how great this wall has been. It’s going to be finished very soon, much sooner… They’re going crazy because they never thought we get it built. That’s why they don’t talk about it anymore. They don’t talk about the wall. They used to talk about it. Now they don’t talk about it anymore.
 But Mark is talking about how incredible the border security… And they took down his tweet and they wanted to close him up. All he’s doing is saying we’re doing a good job and he’s not a politician. He’s saying he’s doing a good job. They took down his tweet and they got the hell knocked out of them, and they put it back up, I understand. But this is really bad.
 They don’t do that to liberals. They don’t do it to liberals. They don’t ever do it. They don’t touch them. It’s very unfair. And a lot of things are happening. Biden is the candidate of anarchists and rioters and looters and gun grabbers, flag burners.
 We out to put people in jail for a year when they burn our flag. What the hell is that all about? I see them burning a flag. They ought to have, you burn the American flag, you go to jail for one year. It would be amazing.
 I signed the law. You knock down a statue or a monument, you go to jail for 10 years. It’s amazing how that stopped. It’s amazing how that stopped, isn’t it? But it’s the lobbyists, special interests.
 I’m the candidate of police officers, the middle-class, law-abiding hardworking American patriots, and others. I mean, look, I think I’m the candidate of everybody. I think you got everybody here. I know a couple of rich people. Get them the hell out of here, we don’t want them.
 This election will decide whether we restore the rule of a corrupt political class or whether we declare that in America we are still governed. We are the people. We govern. We govern. We’re the boss. We’re the people.
 My opponent supported the job killing Transpacific Partnership. Would have destroyed your automobile business. And I ended it immediately. In fact, crooked Hillary was in favor of it and when she heard me speak about it, she immediately turned against it, but she would have done it.
 He supported the horrendous South Korea Trade Deal that was supposed to produce 250,000 jobs. And it did, for South Korea. It wasn’t so good for us. I read negotiated it. We made it good. We made it good. We kept the 25% chicken tax. You know about the chicken tax, right? That’s on the small trucks. And you’re doing well with small trucks. That’s your best product from a profitability standpoint. It would have been a tremendous crushing blow to the auto workers. And I want to thank the auto workers because despite your leadership… Your leadership stinks, I’ll tell you. All they want is their dues. Pay us dues. They want an increase in dues. They like their life. They like this.
 But the workers, the auto workers, they support me like crazy. The Teamsters, you have this guy Hoffa, he calls up, can you help him with a trucking company, some trucking company, big, beautiful company, great people, many, many thousands of employees. Can you help us with that? And I said, yeah, I can probably do it. I worked it out so that people didn’t lose their jobs. It kept the company going. I was very proud of it. I thought it was great.
 Then I see he’s endorsing sleepy Joe Biden. Biden can’t get arrested. Although actually that’s turning out to be true. He can’t get arrested. We got to think about that one. He’s endorsing Joe Biden, but you know who’s endorsing me? You know who likes me? The teamsters like me, and everybody, all of the workers like me. Maybe he won’t run. I don’t think he’d win anyway if he ran.
 Biden even supported the outrageous Fuel Economy Standards. You know that? That’s where every little ounce they suck every… For half a glass of gasoline, which we have plenty of right now, we have so much we don’t know what the hell to do with it. We had gasoline at one point selling for so little that if you took a barrel of gasoline, they gave you $36 with the barrel. It only lasted for two hours. But I was thinking about leaving government to go an get into that business.
 That’s when the pandemic came in and all of a sudden people weren’t driving cars, et cetera. Little things like that. But we have a lot of gasoline. We have a lot of energy. We have great energy and we believe in all forms of energy. But when they want to turn off our great factories by doing what they’re doing, with people like AOC plus three, telling us how we’re supposed to run our country.
 AOC plus three, I don’t think she ever went… She went to a college, right? Did she ever take an environmental course? All of a sudden she’s saying no more [inaudible 00:30:36] no more [inaudible 00:30:37]. I reversed each and every one of those disasters. Now Biden wants to reinstate it. He wants to re-institute… It took 20, 21 years, many highways and roadways, simple roadways, would take 20 years to get. I have it down to two years. It’s going to be one year and they may get rejected for environmental reasons or safety reasons, but now we’re building roads. We’re doing things that we could never have done before.
 A vote for Biden is a vote to extinguish, demolish, and wipe out Michigan’s auto industry. And many of your other industries. Many of your other industries. A vote for me is to keep and create auto jobs and all sorts of jobs in Michigan, where they belong.
 I ended the NAFTA nightmare and replaced it with a brand new USMCA. Just kicked in. It just kicked in. You know how I know it’s good? Because Mexico and Canada aren’t so happy. They said, “Couldn’t we keep NAFTA?” I said, “No.” They said, “.ell, we want to. We demand it.” I said, “Okay, that’s okay. We’re going to put a 25% tariff on every car you send in.”
 They said, “Like I said, wouldn’t we like to see the USMCA done?” No. I said to them, “If you want to keep it, you can. But I’m going to tariff the cars that come into this country.” So we made a great deal. We made a deal that’s good for Michigan and good for every… But just kicked in. Great for the farmers. It’ll bring tens of thousands of new jobs to Michigan. It’ll bring hundreds of thousands of new jobs to our country. And we won’t be ripped off like we were. And it’s a big disincentive for a company to go and close up their doors and move to Mexico, move to Canada. Now, if you do that, there’s a big price to pay.
 That’s probably the primary reason I ran, if you want to know. I ran it for a lot of reasons. I ran because the last administration was no good, period. I say it all the time, Joe, I wouldn’t have run if it wasn’t for you. You guys were so bad, I ran.
 When GM went bankrupt Biden and Obama threw the workers at Delphi Corporation… Any Delphi people here. Are you Delphi? Where’s Delphi? I tell you, I guarantee you they’re voting for Trump, right? They threw these people under the bus and days ago, I signed an order to restore the pensions and all of the other things for workers, not only Delphi, in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan, who were treated very unfairly, right?
 Good. I figured if we had none here, I would have just said to hell with it. That’s good. All right, you’re going to be taken care of. They were promised by Obama. They were promised by Biden, actually, but then Biden realized he didn’t understand the deal. He wasn’t smart. He tried. He tried. Joe tried. He’s having a hard time.
 I tell you, I see these people and the level of viciousness. You see this character in 16 minutes, screaming, Savannah Guthrie screaming, screaming, all of them screaming. And then I see sleepy Joe walk out. “What flavor ice cream is it?” He looks down. He actually had a hard time with that question.
 I said, they don’t ask me questions like that. They don’t do it. How about when they give them the questions? That’s worse, when he reads them off. They give him a question. This is the people I deal with all the time. They’re crazy maniacs. I deal with them all the time. They ask me things that are just terrible.
 I’ve been doing this for a long time. They asked me very, very dangerous, horrible questions. And with him, it’s like, they give him the questions in advance and he puts it on a teleprompter. Just like that. They give him a question. Then he goes, “Could you move that a little closer?”
 And when I see that, I said, that means that he has the questions. Not since the Hillary Clinton scandal, when she got… Remember? Who now that wonderful person that did it, Donna Brazile, is now working for Fox. So that was a great hire. That was a great hire. Let’s hire Donna Brazile, who got fired by CNN and gets hired by Fox. What’s that all about? Do you think there’s some changes going on at Fox? I don’t think so. I don’t think so. Let’s hire the person that cheated with Hillary Clinton.
 Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. The Biden family is looking more and more like a crime family and they don’t want to. It’s called the laptop from hell. The laptop from hell. They took millions of dollars from the Chinese Communists while Vice-President Biden shipped Michigan jobs to China. How the hell can you have somebody fighting for you against China? And he’s getting money. Him and his family are getting millions and millions of dollars from China.
 Yesterday, press reports, I don’t know about this, but press reports came out yesterday, said the Biden family is under FBI investigation for a long time for money laundering. For money laundering. If Biden wins, China… How do you have it where they’re getting millions and millions of dollars from Communist China, and then he’s going to be your president and he’s going to make a deal like I do? Nobody has done what I’ve done, including GS Steel, where they were dumping steel. And I charged them a tariff of 25%, and our steel companies came back. And the 25% was just the beginning. But our steel companies come back. I mean, they all came back.
 When we win, Michigan wins. When we win, America wins. And that’s what I want. That’s all I want. That’s all I want. I had a very good life before this. People think this is easy. You make a telephone call and these really dishonest people they impeach you on a perfect call. “How you doing? Congratulations on your win.” A man, I never even spoke to. “I’d like to congratulate you on your win.” He just became the President of Ukraine. Let’s impeach him for that. These people are sick.
 But you know, the Republicans stuck together. 197 to nothing in Congress. 52 and a half. 52 and a half. A half. Does anybody know who the half was? Biden didn’t know. Remember? He said, “The man from Utah. What’s his name?” He didn’t know. He forgot the name of the man. He’s only worked with him for about 35 years. Something going on up there.
 He won’t be there long. He’s not going to be there at all because our country will be destroyed. Honestly, we can’t play games. We can’t play games. We have the potential. We have more potential as a country than we’ve ever had. We can’t have a guy like this in there. The guy doesn’t have a clue. He doesn’t. And they’ll say things that are unbelievable. He’ll say things about me. They do an ad about me that is so false. And you can’t do a thing about it. And we put them a notice, we said it was false. It was all false. We put them a very strong legal notice. They keep it going. They figure, what the hell, the thing’s over with in five days, why should we change it?
 I’m telling you, those are bad people. That’s why…
 Why should we change it? I’m telling you, those are bad people. That’s why I say, “I’m just going to tell you the truth.” I’ll tell you the truth, but here’s the differences. This is the truth. He’s shot. Okay? He’s shot. And it’s not because of his age because at 78 or whatever it is, I know a lot of people that are 85, I know a person 92, Bernie Marcus, 92, Home Depot. He’s perfect. In fact, I tell him I think he’s sharper now than he was 45 years ago, if you want to know. No, it’s not the age. They say age. It’s not the age. A lot of people in their 80s, even their 90s are sharp. This guy is mentally shot.
 One of the biggest issues for Michigan, other than that, let’s keep it going, is this election, is … And you know what? One of your very big is the whole refugee situation, right? I know it’s a big deal here. To protect our national security, earlier this week, I suspended the entry of refugees from foreign nations compromised by terrorism. So you saw what’s going on in France, right? You saw that. And they had another big attack last night, a really bad one. If it’s okay with you, if it’s okay with the great people of Michigan, you got to give me approval, we are keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. I remember I was in the campaign and I’m running against this guy named Ben Carson. And he was tough. He was tough. No, he was. He was tough. And he made a statement somewhat similar to that. And everybody said, “Oh, he’s going to have to leave the campaign.” I said, “No, he’s not. His poll numbers just went way up, I’ll bet.” Next day, what did they go up? Like seven, eight, nine points. I said, “See?” Then I had to start really worrying about this guy. He went up. Everyone said you had to leave. Right, Candy? He has to leave the campaign. I said, “No, no, it’s actually going to be good for him.” We don’t want to be used. We don’t want to be taken advantage of. And I got passed. I got passed a ban. It’s a ban on people coming in from certain countries that are horrible countries where they hate us and the people hate us. Right?
 And one of the reasons we’re going to go, I’m going there later, we have a governor and attorney general, we have 25,000 people want to go in Minnesota. Right? One of the reasons we’re going to win … And they want us to have 250 people. Well, that’s a slight difference. We have 25,000 people, but they have a rule you can’t have more than 250 people for a political event. So they’re scamming us. So you know what? That maybe will give us the final victory. We haven’t won Minnesota since 1972. Okay? That’s a long time, which will tell you the odds. That’s not good odds. But we’re very popular because I helped with that disaster in Minneapolis. We got the guys in there. And what did it take? About 25 minutes, it was over. They should have called a long time before they went through two weeks of hell. And that’s what we do. The federal governments are always prepared to come in. If you had problems, the federal government is always prepared to come in. We will extinguish those problems very, very quickly.
 And we’ll always come in. And some people say, “It’s not politically correct to say that.” Yeah, it’s politically correct. I thought it was a beautiful sight. They lined up. This is after a week and a half of terror. Remember, you had that idiot anchor from CNN standing, “This has been a friendly protest.” And over his shoulder, it looked like Berlin in its worst day during the war. The worst day they ever had. But no, they told us we could only have 250 people. So they thought I’d cancel. “Oh, this is really great. Trump will cancel.” No. I’m going to go and I’ll have 250. That’s like the first row. I’ll have 250 people and they’ll have a lot of people outside, but I don’t want them to stand outside. It’s colder there than it is now. But it’s very cold and very horrible because the president of the United States is going to Minnesota to talk to people and they’re suppressing it. And they think that’s good, but I don’t. That shows weak leadership by the governor and very unfair leadership by the attorney general.
 One thing I’ll say about that attorney general, I have to say this, he was the first one, he and a couple of people, he was sitting down being interviewed by George Stephanopoulos or somebody. And he said, no, and he was a vice chairman of the Democrat party. And you know who I’m talking about. And he said, “Trump is going to win.” This was right after I came down the escalator with our future first lady. Right? That beautiful trip. Beautiful. No. And he said, “Trump is going to win.” “No, no, no. You’re kidding. Why? Why?” “No, no. Trump is going to win.” So I realized then he’s a very smart person. He turned out to be right about that one. Didn’t he, Nigel? The great Nigel.
 We’re working to help the Chaldean Christian community also, by the way. We’re working to help them. We’re working to help them. Are you Chaldean? Oh wow. Good. Oh, good. All right. No, we’re working to help. We’re going to help. We’re going to help. We’ve been working on it for 25 years, just like I did with Israel and so many other things. These guys, they talk, talk, talk, nothing ever gets done. Chaldean American, what are you going to show me there? You opened your jacket. Look at this. Oh. Now I like the Chaldeans even more. Oh, that’s good. You know what? They have great support. They have great support. They have great support. Good. Thank you very much. They do have great support. But hey look, it’s a wild life.
 Biden has pledged a staggering 700, this is with Bernie Sanders and the manifesto, we call it. That’s the deal with Bernie, Crazy Bernie. And I mean, he lost twice now. Guy’s the greatest loser I’ve ever seen. No, he loses. He doesn’t even complain about it. Just goes back into Congress, he votes. He holds up his hand, radical, anything radical. The guy, I’ve never seen a guy like that. He get treated very badly by the Democrats with Hillary, then he runs again. Is Bernie Sanders going to run again in four years? Does anybody? I don’t know. He’s all right. I’ll tell you one thing, he fights like hell, right? Who would have been easier? Him or Sleepy Joe? I don’t know. No, he has a smaller base, but they have energy. Joe has a bigger base, but there’s zero energy, right? Now, we have a really big base and we have more energy than anybody. Right?
 A 700% increase in refugees from the most dangerous terrorist spots anywhere in the world, including Syria, Somalia, where Omar, Omar, that’s the other reason I’m going to win. Omar. Ilhan. Ilhan Omar. She loves our country very much. And Yemen, right? No, she’s going to help me win. She’s going to protest when I go up there. And I’ll say, “Thank you very much. Every time you protest, it’s got to add about 25% of the vote.” She’s telling us how to run our country. And she doesn’t love our country, that I can tell you. The Biden plan will turn Michigan into a refugee camp. If you look at what they want to do, this is agreed to with Bernie Sanders in that group, a 700% increase. A lot of you people would say, “No, thank you.” He has also vowed to terminate our national security travel bans, allowing unlimited migration from deadly war zones and terrorist havens. You’re all sitting here saying, “I think I’m changing my vote. I think we’ll go with Trump.”
 That I even have to do this, I will say this, and it’s terrible but before this COVID, there’s about 24 names, right? China plague, China virus, but we have about 20. Well, let’s just call it the China virus. Before the China virus came, we were going to have the easiest campaign in history. I was up so much. Now I got to work, right? I have to work. And that’s okay. Actually, I think people respect it even more. They respect it even more. But it has, it’s affected politics and leadership all over the world. I mean, people that were very popular all over. Because it’s uphill. But we’ve handled it well. Our people have done an incredible job. Our generals. I mean, look at the vaccines. Hey, excuse me, look at me. I go in, “Sister, I wasn’t feeling too good.” And they gave me something called Regeneron. The next morning, sister, I woke up and it was like God touched my shoulder. Right? I said, “Let me at them.” I said, “Give me a trade deal for Michigan. I want to go and renegotiate a trade there.”
 No, what they’ve done is incredible in a short period of time, six months. I mean, they’d never even heard of this drug. And now Eli Lilly’s also doing something similar. We have things coming out that are amazing. And even the Times wrote today people are getting better. People are getting better because of what’s happening. And for the Times to write that, that’s a very, very hard thing for them to write. You would’ve thought they would’ve waited a few days, actually. Let’s wait. Let’s put out that story on the 4th of November. And you know that everything’s COVID covered. You know that. You turn on the news. COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID.
 And cases are up. Why are cases up? Because we test more than anybody in history. I mean, we have tests on top of tests. We’d like another test. We got 19 different versions. And we test much more than India. They have 1.5 billion people. And many countries don’t test at all. Many countries don’t test at all. But we test more. But deaths are way down. And people are getting better. But I’m an example of it. My wife is an example of it. First lady. And Baron Trump, young, very young, 14. He’s my very tall 14 year old boy. He’s tall. He’s a tall guy. But he’s a strong guy. And he tested, the doctor said, “Sir, Baron has tested positive.” The doctors here, Sean, great doctor, said, “He’s tested positive.” I said, “Positive for what?” Said, “COVID.” I said, “Oh, that’s terrible.” He said, “No, he’ll be okay.” Like 15 minutes later, “How’s Baron doing, Doc?” “Oh, it’s okay. He’s fine now.” No, they have strong immune. Now they’ll say, “He exaggerated the time.” They’re so sick. They’re so sick.
 You know what I said? I got myself into trouble with that also. Great gentlemen from England. I said that refugees are coming in and they’ll promise him more than they give our citizens. They said, “We’re going to give you healthcare. We’re going to give you a free education. And every refugee that comes in will get a free Rolls Royce.” And CNN went crazy. They said, “President Trump lied. They’re not getting a Rolls Royce.” It’s true. They took it very seriously. You can’t be sarcastic. You can’t have a little bit of fun. Because if you do, you look very bad. No, they said, “It’s not true about the Rolls Royce.” But at 800,000 a pop, I would say probably not. No, CNN took that very seriously.
 Joe Biden’s plan will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, crash the economy, and shut down our entire country. Under the Biden lockdown, countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdose, deferred medical care. So many things happen, abuse. I mean, what’s happening? There will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Christmas, no 4th of July. There’ll be no nothing. There’ll be no future. Other than that, it’s quite a good plan, I think. Biden doesn’t have a clue. Look, the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. Always remember that.
 Biden wants to keep everyone locked up, even young Americans who are at extremely low risk from the virus. He wants to steal the dreams and the futures of our youngest citizens. And when a child loses a year of his life because he’s locked in, and one thing we have found, telehealth has been great and a lot of the … But when you’re looking at a laptop, it’s not nearly as good as sitting in a classroom. That has been determined. It’s not good. It’s not the same. And we’re keeping these kids away from school and that’s something. I mean, it’s great in some instances and telehealth is one of them. But when it comes to school, we’ve learned very strongly, it’s not the same. Which is why I’m going to win. We’re going to win with a record number. I think there’s a vote out there that is incredible.
 Let me ask you a question. Who has voted by ballot or who has voted so far? Okay. Who is going to vote on Tuesday? Good. It’s a funny thing. We tell our people, “Go out and vote.” We’re not big into the ballot world. We sort of don’t like it. Okay? Because too many tricks get played like they find Trump ballots in a wastepaper basket, they find them in dumpsters, they found some in the river. Lovely. Look, all those ballots. Oh, they happen to be Trump ballots. Now they’re finding them all over the place. 500 incorrect applications get sent to Virginia. The beauty was they sent many ballots to a certain state. They were only defective in one way. They didn’t have the name Trump on it. In other words, if you wanted to vote for Trump, what do you do? I guess you’re supposed to write it out? Then they’ll say, “You can’t do that.” No, it’s a crooked deal. It’s a crooked deal. It’s a very sad thing. We like going to vote.
 And the other thing, funny, they don’t want to vote. I could say, “Go to vote on Saturday, on Sunday or Monday.” They really want to vote on election day. I like it. And we are going to have a red wave the likes of which has never been seen. And let me give the Democrats the bad news. Their vote is under what they thought they needed.
 Thank you. But their votes are under, they’re not performing like they should. They’ll probably drop some of the ballots and sign them real quick. I could just see the governor of Nevada. I’m sure he never did this but, “Get me some ballots. We’re losing, here.” Because they don’t want to have any signature verification in Nevada. The governor, he was a political guy. He ran the political club. So he’s a beauty. So they don’t want to have any verification of a signature. So if they’re losing, they’ll say, “Get me some ballots real quick. I’ll sign them myself.” No.
 I went to vote. I voted. And I went into a place in Palm Beach and I said … The woman said, “Sir, may I please see your identification?” It’s true. But I wanted that. I mean, I wanted. So I took out a passport. “Sir, do you have any other form of identification?” I said, “Are you serious?” I said, “No.” But I did. I gave her something else. And I sat and I filled out the form. I mean, there was no way you could cheat. There was no way. I mean, it was really good. It was really professional. And other people that come in, it was so nice. And we should have voter ID, by the way, voter ID. The whole country.
 And thanks to our relentless efforts, only 3% of ER visits nationwide, right? Are related to the virus. So 3% of hospital rooms, emergency rooms, 3% are related right now exactly, just came out last night, 3% to the virus. A lot of people, you read about cases, but now they’re young people, they’re college students, they’re younger than college students. But they love the word case because cases have gone up. They don’t say that it’s a 14 year old kid or that it’s a 20 year old student. I mean, you go under 70 and you go under certain ages and it’s 99.9%. It’s a whole different thing. But they don’t like to talk. But I see it’s always cases are up and people go crazy. No, you live with it and you know what to do. We understand it now. You got to understand it. But we’re making that beautiful turn. And the vaccines are coming.
 Due to our groundbreaking therapies, the fatality rate is down 85%. Think of that. And our excess mortality rate is 42% lower than Europe. They kept saying, “Germany, Germany, Germany.” First of all, they have different ways of counting. In Germany, if you have a bad heart and you’re ready to die, or if you have cancer and you’re going to be dying soon and you catch COVID, that happens, we mark it down to COVID. Our doctors get more money if somebody dies from COVID. You know that, right? I mean, our doctors, they’re very smart people. So what they do is they say, “I’m sorry, but everybody dies of COVID.” But in Germany and other places, if you have a heart attack or if you have cancer, you’re terminally ill, you catch COVID, they say you died of cancer. You died of heart attack. With us, when in doubt, choose COVID.
 It’s true. No, it’s true. Now they’ll say, “Oh, it’s terrible what he said.” But that’s true. It’s like $2,000 more. So you get more money. This could only happen to us where cases are now surging. And if you look at Europe, they’re surging despite these draconian lockdowns. They have it locked down and they’re surging. So what happens-
 … the lockdown, and they’re surging. So what happens is if you get it, stay away. If you get it, you’re going to get better and then you’re going to be immune and it’s a whole thing and it goes away, but the vaccines will help. But don’t take my word for it because we have a video and I wanted to show you a little video, we only do this to people we really like because this thing cost a lot of money. So we have a very little and very quick video, but it’s very descriptive and it talks a little bit about sleepy Joe. Okay.
 I don’t know. I don’t know. I don’t know what to tell you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. But that said it all, that’s easier than talking for half hour. It says [inaudible 00:05:26], clue where he is. Where joined by [inaudible 01:02:32] Ben Carson and is incredible wife Candy, Candy Carson. Thank you very much. Thank you Ben [inaudible 01:02:39] great job he does. What a [inaudible 01:02:40] man. Congressional candidate [inaudible 00:05:44], I hear he’s doing great. Paul Young, Paul. That’s great, Paul, I hear it’s going good, you’re winning. I’m hearing good things, you’re going to win. And Erik Esshaki. Erik, thank you Erik. Thank you very much. Good luck, Erik, heard you’re doing really… We need these two guys, please vote for them. And Michigan GOP Chair, Laura Cox, thank you. Are we winning Laura? I see we’re up, we’re just up in the poll by three points. Good, so carry it in. I mean three points, how the hell you beat this guy by three points. Is that a win? I don’t know. Hey, if it’s one vote, we’ll take it, right? We got to win. We got to win. Michigan is very important. Michigan, it’s very important for Michigan that we win.
 For 47 years, Joe Biden betrayed the African-American community. Biden devastated black families with his disastrous 1994 Crime Bill that came up very much in the debate. He called young black men, “Super predators,” and he did it all the time. I gave former prisoners a second chance by signing our landmark Criminal Justice Reform that Biden couldn’t do and Obama couldn’t do. Joe Biden flooded black neighborhoods with illegal foreign labor and I’m providing black neighborhoods with billions of dollars in thanks with our Opportunity Zones, which have turned out to be incredible. Tim Scott, Opportunity Zones have been incredible, what they’ve done for communities and for Hispanic, black workers. Under our Platinum Plan we’ll create 3 million new jobs for black Americans, restore safety to every neighborhood and we’ll deliver school choice to every parent in America. Right? Good.
 And in conclusion, I just want to say, it’s been an honor to be with you, this is incredible. It’s cold out here, it’s cold, I’d say it’s a little cold. But over the years, and over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end the reliance on China once and for all, that’s already started. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will end the big tech monopoly and restore freedom of speech. We will defend religious liberty, the right to life and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might and we will ensure peace through strength.
 We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices even more. We have done something nobody’s done, 52 years, last year, drug prices went down, but now they’re going to go down at a very high rate because we’re doing favored nations. The drug companies don’t like me too much, I will tell you. We will protect Social Security and Medicare and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
 America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American Flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God we trust.”
 For years, you had a president who apologized for America, now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Michigan. See now, a lot of times migrants… and standing up for the great people of Morrow, Ohio, Ohio? No it’s Michigan, that’s happened seven times. You can’t do that, you can’t let that happen, you can’t let that happen. We did not come this far and fight this hard only to surrender our country back to the Washington swamp. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and get out to vote, get out to vote. Got to do it. Got a big day, Tuesday. Don’t even do it on Monday, my people said, “Oh, let them go Monday, Sunday. Don’t worry about it, just do it like you like to do it. Just do it. Tuesday’s good.
 On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the swamp once and for all, nobody ever said it was going to be that deep. Nobody ever said it was going to be that deep and that vicious, but we’re knocking the hell out of them, they don’t know what the hell is going on [inaudible 01:08:05]. It’s been tough for them too, they never had a thing like this. From Midland to Mackinac, from Lansing to Grand Rapids, and from Battle Creek to right here in Waterford Township, nice, we inherit the legacy of Michigan patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line, think of that. It’s the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg’s revolutionized entire industries, what a state. Michigan gave us Motown, the Mustang, and the unrivaled might of the American Midwest. We made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country, we are returning power to you, the American people. It’s what I said I was going to do. With your help, your devotion, your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God and together with the incredible people of Michigan, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Michigan, go out and vote. Thank you.
 Wow. Thank you. What a crowd. What a beautiful crowd. Look at that, you can’t even see the end of it. What a great crowd. Thank you very much. Hello, Wisconsin. We’re back. We’re back. We’re going to win. We’re going to win this state. We win this state, you know what? It’s over, if we win Wisconsin. I’ve treated Wisconsin very well. Four days from now, we’re going to win this state and we’re going to win four more beautiful years in the White House. With your support, we will continue to bring back your jobs, cut your taxes, cut regulations, support our great police, defend our borders. Without borders, we don’t have a country, do we?
 Protect our second amendment, protect religious liberty and ensure more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful words, “Made in the USA.” They’re starting to do that. You remember, I used to say four years ago, “We’re going to bring back the words Merry Christmas.” We did, right? Merry Christmas. Those big department stores, they liked happy New Year. I said, “No, you can say them both, but you can’t do one without the other.” Merry Christmas is back. You notice that right? And pretty soon we’re going to be there. Joe Biden will shut down your state’s economy, wipe out your factories, ship your jobs to China.
 To China, that’s paid him off by the way. China that’s paid him off. You know that, right? Although you don’t get too much news, but you get enough, you know what’s going on. They don’t like giving you the news. Punish your family with a $4 trillion tax hike, eliminate private healthcare. 180 million people have private health care, they want to take it away. And send your state into a catastrophic… Do you want to use the word recession or depression? Because the word is depression. Biden has vowed to eliminate the entire US oil industry, no fracking, no energy and gas prices going five, six, $7 for a gallon. How do you like $2 gasoline, good? There’ll be no heating in the winter, no air conditioning in the summer and no electricity whenever the hell you want it. Right now, you have it made. You’re so lucky. You are so lucky I’m your president. And your team is doing a good job, right? They’re doing a good job, right? They are doing a good job. And while I’m president, America will proudly remain energy independent. How does that sound? First time, you’re energy independent. We’re the biggest in the world, nobody close. Biden will deliver poverty, misery, depression. I will deliver jobs, jobs, jobs, and the greatest economy in the history of our country. That’s going to be next year, you see it. Yesterday it was announced, last quarter, our economy grew at the astonishing speed, 33.1%. The largest GDP growth ever recorded. And not just by a little bit, by more than double. Right? And that was in 1952, but more than double. Think of it. It’s never been anything like that, for any country. Not only ours, for any country. In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs. We have a super V. I used to talk about the V. This is no longer V, this is a super V. This is despite the fact that the Democrat governors have States shut down, right? Gee, does that sound-
 Hey, does that sound familiar to you? Middle-class family income is up more than $6,000 under my administration, far greater than the past administration. I mean, that was not up. That was doing very poorly. We created the greatest economy in history, and now we’re doing it again. Make America Great Again, again. We did it once. That hat, see that hat is now obsolete. It’s called Make America Great Again, again. In a very recent poll Gallup, they said 56% of Americans said they were doing better today than they were four years ago. And we’re rounding the turn on a pandemic and it’s 56. And it’s the highest number they’ve ever recorded, so we’re doing something right.
 Joe Biden has spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars, in countries that most of you have never even heard of. I mean, think of it. And you know, at the debate… Did anybody see the debate by any chance? During the debate, he’d say, “Well, we’re going to do this.” I said, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” “We’re going to do that. We’re going to do this to that, this and that.” “Joe, why didn’t you do it, Joe?” That was an easy debate. 91% to 9%, they said. That was good. That’s like a great football game. No, I said, “But Joe…” I said, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” “Well, I don’t know exactly.” And then the last question was a disaster. Basically, he said, no more oil, no more fracking, no more anything. I said, “Did he say that?”
 And I just said, “We just left a great place…” You know that. It was a little cold there. This is like warm by comparison. This is a pleasure. This is a pleasure. That was cold. I said, “Let’s cut this a little bit shorter,” but we have a big crowd. We had a big crowd. No matter where we go, we have these massive crowds And I’m going up to Minnesota. We’re going to Minnesota, which we have a chance. Not since 1972, think of it. So those are odds that aren’t good, but they like us up there, with the Iron Range, all the things I’ve done for them up there. And helping them when the rioters and anarchist attacked. We took over and we did a great job. But they should have called us two weeks earlier, in all fairness, and they called. If they called us, federal government, if they called us two weeks earlier, that would have been nice. You would have had no problem. It took us about what? 25 minutes to solve the problem, right? Boom, they just marched.
 But we’re going and governor just informed us though, that… So we have 25,000 people, 25,000 people, that’s lot. You got a lot here. 25,000 people in Minnesota. They said we can only have 250 people. So they were hoping I’d say, “Oh, well, we can’t do that. Let’s turn around.” No, we’re going to go. We’re going to go. It’ll be a very interesting trip. Even if we see 250 people… Can I be honest with you? Everybody understands, you can’t play those games. That could very well, aside from Omar… Omar’s our secret weapon. Ilhan Omar, that’s our secret weapon in Minnesota. No, she doesn’t love our country. I don’t like people that don’t love our country, I don’t. And the other, and you know all about this because you’ve had your things, the other is we want law and order. We’ve got to have law and order. You look at what’s going on in Philadelphia, we can’t have that. You have to let the police do what they do. I mean, they have to do their job.
 When I watched that, again Democrats, it’s all Democrats, when I watched that and people are looting stores and you have the anarchists, the rioters, but they’re looting stores. They’re walking out with dishwashers. They’re walking out, guy has a dishwasher, he couldn’t even… He’s pushing it. Their washer… I mean, they have television sets and they’re walking and the police are standing there. And those police don’t want to be standing there. They don’t want to do that. They want to be able to do their job, but they’re not. And you can’t have that. We need law and order, as we had right here, as we did a very good job right here. We got the endorsement of everybody. Everybody in your state, every law enforcement group in your state endorsed us. I think every law enforcement group in the country endorsed us.
 I asked sleepy Joe, during one of the debates, I said, “Joe, who endorsed you from law enforcement?” And he couldn’t answer the question. Now possibly that happened, but he’s got a very bad memory too. He can’t… He was going, “Now, let me think. Give me about 20 minutes, I’ll figure it out.” I doubt he has any. I doubt he has any. I think we have everybody. We have everybody, Florida, Texas, Oklahoma. Chicago endorsed us. Isn’t that nice? Chicago, with all the problems they have. And they have a great group of people from law enforcement. They could stop those problems. I mean, you see what’s going on there. New York has gone through the roof, New York’s finest. We have New York’s finest, these are incredible police. They could do the job, but they have to be allowed to do the job. And they endorsed me. First time in the history of the police force in New York, that they endorsed a presidential candidate, so it was pretty cool.
 So Joe Biden tried to cut Medicare, during the course of his terms and he worked very hard on cutting social. You wouldn’t believe that, right? And we actually put it up. We put it on… Where is that screen? For places that we really like, we use the screen. It’s very expensive. You’ll see. Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, which is the worst trade deal ever made and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Which of course Wisconsin, 130 minimum manufacturing jobs. At every turn, Biden betrayed American workers and twisted his knife into the back of Wisconsin workers. You suffered as much as anybody. Biden’s also spent half a century, really a half a century, betraying Black Americans. He devastated Black families with the 1994 Crime Bill. And he called Black youth, “Super predators,” a term that’s a terrible term. Super predators over and over again. And then he wonders why they’re not doing well with the Black vote. The Black votes not turning out for him.
 See, now we don’t have to go by the fake polls. Now you see what’s happening. He’s not doing well with the Black vote. You know why? Because they remember that, and they remember 1994 and they remember him calling everybody a super predator. And that’s a term that they don’t like. That’s a term that nobody would like. But they’re not showing up to vote, and others aren’t either. We’re doing great in Florida. We’re doing great in Ohio. We’re doing great in… North Carolina was fantastic. I think we’re doing really good in Pennsylvania. We’re doing very good in Pennsylvania. I think we’re doing good all over the place, you want to know the truth. I think we’re doing good all over. We’re doing great here. I think they just said here we’re either tied or one up or tied or one down.
 It’s like essentially tied. I don’t know how the hell I can be tied with this guy. He’s shot. He’s shot. They said, “Sir, you’re tied in Wisconsin.” Normally that means because we have like a hidden voter, people that don’t want to talk about it, they just go out and vote for Trump. I never knew. Should I be complimented by that? “We don’t want to talk about it. Leave us alone. We’re voting for Trump.” Right? So when you tied, that’s a good thing. But they said, “Sir, we’re tied.” And I said, “That’s interesting.” And then the fake Washington post, ABC, right? Did you see that?
 So, we are tied. I was up here two days ago. We gave a great speech. That was a cold one. We gave a speech on a racetrack. We got a lot of people and it was freezing, but I got through that. There was no way that I leave early or the great people of Wisconsin, because you don’t know about that. There was no way. Anyway, this pole, so we’re tied. Let’s say we’re tied, one up, one down, we’re right, boom. Very close, I think we’re going to take it, easily actually. I think we’re going to take it… Because we’re going to have a turnout, probably on Tuesday. Our people like to vote, they like to vote on Tuesday, not even on Sunday or Monday, but [inaudible 00:14:56]. So Washington Post and ABC, it’s called Washington Post-ABC Poll, they come out 17 down. “Donald Trump is 17 down in Wisconsin.”
 I said, Wait a minute, I just left a crowd of 25,000 people or more. They were going crazy. That wasn’t a second place crowd.” We know second place crowds. That was not a second place crowd. And they did it to me four years ago with crooked Hillary. They had me, “He’s down 12,” two weeks to go. You remember? Washington Post-ABC, crooked as hell. It’s called suppression polls. You know what it does? It suppresses the vote. You get depressed. You like Trump. You know, “I like the president, but let’s…” And in the case four years ago, “I like Donald Trump. He’s going to do a good job.”
 We did more than we said we were going to do. We did more than any administration has ever done in the first three and a half years. But it’s a suppression thing. So when it came out 12 down, we actually wrote them legal letters and everything and then they changed the vote. Can you believe it? They change it, where we were one down, but that was the day before the election. Two weeks to go, 12 down. But this one was 17 down in your state and I said, “I could be three down. I could also be three up.”
 I could be three down. I could be four down. I could also be three up or four up. One thing I know, I’m not 17 down. So I called up the best pollster, a guy, it doesn’t matter, let’s just call him John. His first name’s John. I said, “John, can I ask you a question? I just left Wisconsin. We had a tremendous crowd. It was like a love fest. And then I wake up…” True. “And then I wake up like two days later and I see a poll, Washington Post, it’s all over the place…” They love it, all the fake news. Look at all of them back, they’re fake.
 Among the most dishonest people in the world. Now they have a new thing, they don’t report. They don’t report on criminality, like with the Biden crime family. They don’t want to report. But fortunately, we have guys like Ron Johnson that are willing to say it like it is. It’s true. It’s actually very true, what I just said. He’s fantastic, but we’ll get to him later. Your senator is fantastic. So you take a look and I said, “I’m not 17 now.” And he’s a really smart guy, he says, “No, you’re not.” I said, “But don’t they have to pay a price, like they did it 12 down, four years ago.” And then I said, “Isn’t it a bad thing?” He said, “Yeah, but they want you to lose.” I said, “Well, why don’t they make it that I’m three or two down, or make it believable?” “No, no. Three down or two down’s no good. Because if they go three down, two down, four, even five…” I said, “Make it five.” He said, “No, no good. Because that means you have a chance, that might even bring people out.” They want to…
 … Because that means you have a chance. That might even bring people out. They want to make it so bad. And they said, “No.” They’re very smart people. They’re very vicious people. And they purposely make these polls phony. They’re phony polls. And he said, “The only way they really can do it, they have to make it so that the people here think you’re 17 down and they don’t go and vote because they say it’s hopeless.” Five down, four down, three down means, gee, he has a chance. 17 down means, darling, let’s go to dinner, let’s have a wonderful dinner. And then we’ll come home and watch the President lose, but we’re not going to lose. We’re going to win. We’re going to win. True. True story.
 Isn’t that some story? Isn’t that sad? And he knows the people. He said, “No, this is the way they do it.” And then they came with another state where I was 10 down that I’m going to actually win the state. It’s a terrible thing. We have tremendous dishonesty in polling, but not only polling. I mean, the stories. And now there’s something that happened. We call it freedom of the press, right? This is the opposite of freedom of the press, because they now suppress.
 It’s now suppression of the press, because now they have stories and they don’t want to have … you cannot get a story out on Biden criminality. We have the laptop from hell. We have the worst things anyone’s ever seen, and they just won’t write about it. And that includes big tech. So you know what I’m doing? Here’s who I’m facing, a corrupt Democrat party that spied on my campaign and we caught them. They spied on the campaign.
 Thank you. See, I never do anything to encourage it. Because they say, “He led the chant. Lock him up, lock him up. He led the chant against crooked Hillary.” All she did was get rid of 33,000 emails once she got a subpoena from Congress. She deleted them. She acid washed them, and then she took a hammer to a telephones and she beat the hell out of the phone. I’ve gotten rid of a lot of phones, I’ve never hit them with a hammer. Has anybody hit the phone with a hammer? I don’t know. Well, we’ll have to tell that to Ron Johnson. We can put that. That is a strange event, Ron. I bet you never hit your phone with a hammer. No, it’s called you throw it out, right? You throw out your phone, you start all over again.
 No, we’ve got a corrupt bunch of people, but think of it. I’m all up here alone. Think of this. I have the Democrats impeach me for making a phone call. No, I make a phone call to a man I never met. The new President of Ukraine. “Congratulations, congratulations.” It was a perfect phone call. Everybody said it. 297 to nothing in the house, the Republicans voted, right? It’s like this perfect phone call, congratulate> Everyone said to me, “Please call him, he just won.” You know I’m busy, right? I say, “Okay, I’ll call him.” Get the president. Nice guy. “Congratulations, ba, ba, ba. By the way, if you see any crime,” because it we’re supposed to … we have a crime because it’s a lot of corruption there, “Please report it to the Attorney General of the United States.” Oh, we should impeach him.
 I got impeached over a perfect phone call, but they didn’t know we had the call essentially recorded. Thank goodness we had, because they were making up stories, right? They died when they heard we had it transcribed by very professional people. They died because it had already been way down the track by the time they found that out, I had to do that. We called up, we said, “Do you mind if we put your phone call on public record?” They said, “Why would that be? It was just a congratulatory call.” I said, “Well, you’ll find out.” These are bad people.
 So here’s where we have. We have the Democrats. Now we have big tech. Now we also have the rhinos. Now the rhinos in many ways are worse than all of them. And most of the rhinos I beat because they were all representing one of the 17, because we had 18 running, but they were … who most of whom I get along with. Some of them I don’t like, I can tell you the good ones and the bad ones, but I beat all of these guys. And they ended up being rhinos and bad people. And here we are. And we’re President. I think we’re going to have something that’s even better than what we did four years ago. I really believe that. I really believe it. Because you don’t have crowds like this and be on the losing side. You leave here, he said, “Gee, that doesn’t sound like a second place. You can’t even see the end of the crowd. That doesn’t look like a second place finisher.” So when you hear about suppression, you have some very nice people up there, about two of them. But when you hear that, that’s right, I know every one of them there, some of them are great, actually, but we’re going to have a big victory.
 And this election is the most important election of our lifetime. This is a more important election than the last one, and I never thought I’d say it because they have gone so far radical left that we have to make this final step. And we’re going to be normalizing our country, really normalizing our country.
 And you know what else normalizes it? Success. I’ll tell you, before the plague came in from China, they should have never let it happen. But before the plague came in from China, I was getting calls from people that you would least expect. It was time. We had the best numbers, the best employment, the best everything, the stock market all time high, everything was the best. And they were like, “Let’s talk,” and it was happening. Then we got hit with the plague. Success brings this country together, and we’re going to have success next year. We’re going to have success next year.
 The most successful year Wisconsin ever had was last year. You’re going to have a year. I mean, unless some guy gets in that wants to quadruple your taxes, which he wants to do. He’s the only guy I’ve ever seen, “We will raise your taxes.” All my life I’ve seen politicians say, we’re going to cut your taxes. He’s the only guy ever campaigning on. He’s going to increase your taxes. In 2016, Wisconsin voted to fire this corrupt political establishment. And you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first.
 If I don’t sound like a typical politician is because I’m not a politician, if that’s okay. And if I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I fight harder for you than any President at any time in the history of our country.
 That’s so nice. Thank you. That’s a chant that has never been heard politically. Nobody’s ever … even these people, they have … there’s never been a time. We like Ronald Reagan. We like people, but they’ve never had that chant, so it’s an honor. Don’t keep it going too long, because I’ll start to cry. I’ll get a little. And we can’t tell President Xi of China that the President was crying because they said they loved him. Right?
 And the fake news would report it, “President Trump broke down in tears, as they shouted,” somehow it doesn’t work for us. Right? We can’t do that. Right. Look at him. He goes, “No way, you can’t do it.” No, we appreciate it. It is. It’s a chant that nobody’s ever heard before. It started happening like six weeks ago. And I said, “Man, that’s very unusual,” but it’s a beautiful chant and I appreciate it.
 I’m not just running against sleepy Joe Biden. I’m running against the left wing media, the big tech giants and the Washington swamp, and it’s deep and vicious. And they can’t believe what’s happening. They can’t believe it. They would have taken most people out. Almost anybody would have been taken out.
 And I have been helped a lot by that man right there named Ron Johnson. I have. It’s true. He’s a tough guy and he’s a smart guy. And I knew it earlier than anybody else. I knew it. I had a meeting with Ron Johnson and we were going to have a very complex tax. Most people had no idea what we were even talking about. He understood it so good. I mean, so he really understood it. So I knew a long time ago, what you had. Don’t lose him. Don’t ever lose him.
 You need to show up in record numbers and deliver a blistering defeat to these corrupt forces. And they are corrupt as hell. They’re trying to take over our country, and we caught them. They’re coming for your guns. They’re coming for your jobs, and they’re coming for your freedom. Think about it. Your vote will stop them on November 3rd, get out there. You got to vote. It’s the most important issue. One of the most truly important issues.
 You don’t like to even mention it, but as law and order. And I mentioned that to Biden during one of the debates, I said, “Hey, Joe, say the words law and order, can you do it?” He wouldn’t do it because he didn’t want to lose the radical left. He didn’t want to lose them. Joe Biden and his party have spent the entire year inciting violence and hatred against our police officers. He refuses to say, you got to stop it. You cannot run through Portland to destroy the city.
 I mean, it’s been going on. We could stop it in 30 minutes. In Seattle, I said, “I don’t care. We waited and waited. The Governor never called. We waited. I said, “You got to go in.” They took over a part of the city. I mean, this is even … to even talk about this, who would think of this? Seattle. And we were going in and we told them, “We’re coming in the morning,” and you know what they did? That evening they raised their hand and they left. That was the end of it. And a lot of people are paying a big price, by the way, but they raised their hands and they left.
 Or the statues. We signed a law, you knock down statutes … They were knocking down statues all over the country. You knock down statues, you go to jail for 10 years. It’s an old law. It’s amazing how we haven’t seen too much trouble with statutes. There were groups that formed. They wanted to do it. They wanted, and then they said, “Let’s get the hell out of here.” 10 years, 10 years. It says 10 years in prison, old law that we reenacted. You could never get that passed today with this crazy group, Nancy Pelosi and crying Chuck Schumer.
 Crying Chuck Schumer and Nancy would never pass anything like that. They’d say, “No, you’re allowed to rip down anything you want.” We have a DC mayor that set up a commission, to talk about all of the things, cancel culture let’s talk about. They don’t like the Washington monument. They want it renamed or taken down. This was their recommendation. But don’t worry about it. We’re not doing, I promise you. They don’t like the Thomas Jefferson Memorial because they don’t like it. They don’t even know why. Tell me why. And they don’t like even the Lincoln Memorial, right? They don’t like the Lincoln.
 So they wanted recommendations to change the name or take them down. And I said, “I think this commission should be immediately disbanded because it’s not going anywhere.” But they are. I mean, this is a fact. Take down the Washington monument. These people are stone cold crazy. You have to go out and you have to vote.
 Biden stands with the rioters and looters, and Biden wouldn’t say anything about the report. They asked him about the report, he didn’t want to comment. “I have no comment.” Do you want to take down the Washington monument? “I have no comment on that.” Oy yoy yoy, he has no clue. He never had much of a clue. Now we know he …
 I stand with the heroes of law enforcement. These are great people. We have to help them. If Biden wins, the rioters in the streets, they’ll be running your Federal government. There’ll be running your government. No city, no family and no community will be safe. The Biden-Harris. How about Harris? Kamala. Kamala. And you have to say her name right or she gets very upset, right? Even though she doesn’t say it right.
 But the Biden-Harris plan would end cash bail releasing 400,000 dangerous criminals immediately onto your streets, murderers and rapists. What’s going on is crazy. When the violent mob came to a place known as Kenosha, did you ever hear of Kenosha? Because I did. Remember what I did? If I didn’t activate immediately, Kenosha would not be there any longer. They were going to take it down. Biden opposed sending in the National Guard and I insisted on it. And I frankly wish the Governor asked me sooner, but at least he asked me, but we came in and that was over at about another 15 minutes, right? That didn’t take long. That didn’t take long. And we saved Kenosha. So you still have Kenosha.
 They knocked down and they burned a couple of buildings down. I went, I met with the people, and really good people. What was there 100 years? It was a photography store, was 100 years. They burned down the store, but it’s going to get rebuilt. But we stopped it. That whole area would have been burned to the ground. So we came in and it was so easy too. It’s easy, but you sometimes have to meet force with force. You can’t just stand back, sit back and watch it take place like they did in Minneapolis. Then we went in and it took place very quickly.
 Usually if it takes like more than a half an hour to wipe the whole thing out, I say, you’re not doing a very good job. Biden’s running mate, the most liberal Senator in America, even urged their supporters to donate to a fund that bailed out the rioters, took them right out of jail, including a cop killer or an attempted cop killer.
 Biden wants to lock down your homes. He’s ready to lock it down. I mean, you guys are already in a lock down, so you might not notice it as much. Hey, Governor, you got to open up your state here. You got to open it up. You’ve got to open up your state. Got to open it up.
 It’s sad. It’s sad, you got to go back. You understand? You’re going to socially distance. You’re going to do all the things you want to do. But I mean, we’re having these outdoor rallies. They say outdoor. Outdoor, normally would go into an arena. I actually like this stuff better. Although sometimes it’s snowing and sleet. I loved that last stop, but it was, the rain was pouring like sideways. It was going, “Sss,” that stuff. That’s when you say, I love the indoor arenas, but I like these. With a day like this it’s so beautiful. It’s great. Is there any place better to be that a Trump rally? No, seriously. It’s great.
 But this election is a choice between a Trump super boom or a Biden depression. That’s what it is. And it’s also between opening up and keeping it closed. You see what’s happening in Europe? They’re trying it again. They’re going to close up. They closed up and they destroyed their economy. Our economy is so much better, so much stronger. Went down so much less. And now it’s come up faster than any country in the world. But ours is between a safe vaccine, which is coming very shortly, it’s momentarily, or a devastating lockdown. That’s what Biden wants to do because he has no choice.
 He will not call the shots. He will not call the shots, and everybody knows it. Thanks to our historic campaign to slash red tape and mobilize industry, we will deliver a safe vaccine to the American people in literally over the next few weeks we think, over the next few weeks. There was a lot of pressure. There was a lot of pressure on everybody, including on the FDA, not to let this happen before the election.
 So let me tell you, if Biden was in charge of this vaccine, just like the swine flu. He was in charge of H1N1, right? Which he can never get right. He can’t remember it. It’s always messed up. Sometime he does N1H1. And I say, “No.” But it’s the swine flu. I said, “Just call it the swine flu. It’s easier.” Right? It’s the same thing. Call it the swine flu. That was a catastrophe. And his own Chief of Staff said it was the dumbest run thing they’ve ever done. And the lethality is much less than what this was and is, was, and sort of was because we have therapeutics now that are incredible. In fact, here I am. I’m here, right?
 They gave me a shot, Regeneron it’s called, and now there’s Eli Lilly now have the antibody stuff. And I’d like to say it had no impact, but I wasn’t feeling good. I like to say, because of my physical power, my strength, my young age. I made the case. I made the case. CNN got very angry. I said, “I’m not concerned.” No, I said, “When I got better, I got better quick.”
 No, CNN got very angry. Fake news. CNN is totally fake. I said, “No, I beat it because I’m in perfect physical shape,” and I’m a very young …
 I beat it because I’m in perfect physical shape, and I’m a very young person. Well, our First Lady got it. She got better. Barron got it. He got better so fast, we didn’t even know. We said, the doctor said, “Sir, Barron has tested positive.” I said, “For what?” He’s very young and very tall. He’s seriously tall. He’s a good kid, but he’s a strong kid, but he’s a kid and the immune systems, so they said, Dr. Shaw, and he’s great. He’s White House physician. He said, “Barron tested positive.” I said, “For what?” He said, “For COVID.” There’s like 30 different names. I happened to call it the China plague or the China virus, because it’s more accurate. Right?
 About 14 minutes later, I said, “How’s Barron doing? “Well, he’s recovered, fully.” I said, “Barron, were you feeling bad?” “I didn’t know anything, Dad. What was wrong, Dad?” By the way, speaking to that, get back to school. Get back to school. Okay? Get back to school, right? Look, Ron [inaudible 00:37:13] agrees. Seniors be the first in line to get it, and we will, we’re making it available free, because it’s not your fault that this thing happened. The vaccine, by the way, with or without the vaccine, we’re rounding the turn, but the vaccine makes it go faster. The vaccines are going to be out very soon. Very, very soon. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus and the pandemic, quickly restore normal life. I just want normal life. You do too.
 All we want is normal life. I’m looking up to the sky. A friend of mine said, “You’re the most famous man in the world.” I said, “No, I’m not. No, I’m not.” “No,” he said, “No, who’s more famous than you. You are the most famous man in the world. What are you talking about? Who’s more famous?” I said, “Jesus Christ.” I don’t want to take any chances. I looked up and I said, “It’s not even close.” All right. But, next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. Joe Biden’s plan will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, crash the economy and lock down the entire country. He doesn’t mind locking down the country. The country could not stand it. You know, we locked it down shortly. We did it. We figured it out. We protect our elderly people, et cetera, but he thinks it’s fine.
 He loves that whole deal. I’ll tell you. All he talks about is COVID. He gets up today. He’s talking COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID. The truth is, we have done an incredible job with the ventilators, the vaccines, the therapeutics, but all he does, because he’s got nothing else he can talk about, because no administration in the history of our country has done what we’ve done. I say it all the time. In the first three and a half years, what we’ve done with tax cuts and regulation cuts and rebuilding our military, which was totally depleted and a disaster. What we’ve done with our military, and so many other things, you know them all. Nobody’s done, and they never even questioned me.
 The fake news with all the cameras, it’s never like where they come, “Oh, you shouldn’t have said that.” Nobody’s done … You think of it, Space Force. We could name, right, we could name so many different things. Under the Biden lockdown, countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdoses, deferred medical care, and you’ll have no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving, no Christmas, no 4th of July, no future. Other than that, he’s doing a fantastic job. Biden wants to keep everyone locked up, even young Americans who are extremely low risk, like we talked about. He wants to steal the dreams and the future of our young people. One thing we’ve learned, the the computers are great and the laptops, everything’s great.
 For telehealth, it’s been great, where people can stay in, and that’s really been, I think it’s up like 7000% or something. It’s a great thing. But you know, for school learning, it’s terrible. It doesn’t work. It can’t compare to a class or a campus. They’re trying so hard to say, “Oh gee, this is wonderful.” It doesn’t compare. It’s well-documented. You’re taking a large percentage of a young life out of play. It’s a terrible thing you’re doing to young kids. It’s a terrible thing that’s happening with the parents too, because the kid’s at school and the parents are working now. The parents don’t know what to do. Many of their jobs are gone, anyway. Now, you got to open up your state. You got to do it fast. You got to do it fast.
 Thanks to our relentless efforts, only 3% of the emergency room visits nationwide are related to the virus. Think of that. 3%, because you know what it is? They only talk about cases. The reason we have so many cases, because we test. If I tested half, they said, “Test, test, test.” We test more than any country in the world, by far. We have the best tests. These are things that we never even had six months ago. Now, if I said, “Let’s cut the testing down in half, you’d have half. Everyone would say, “Oh, the cases are way down.” Right? But, you know what? It’s good because we know if there’s a problem, et cetera, et cetera. We know if there’s a hotspot. But that’s exactly what it is. I mean, but what we do and what we’ve done so well, other therapies, and if you think of it, the fatality rate is down 85% and more now. Think of that.
 But, they talk about cases because when you hear 3% of the emergency rooms are devoted … It’s supposed to be 100%, and the hospitals are going to close. They don’t know what’s going on. It’s been amazing what we’ve been able to do, but you don’t hear them talking about death. You hear them talking about, because as a percentage, what we’ve done compared to other countries is incredible. Now, especially with the explosion that you see taking place over in Europe. We’ve done a great job, and I’ll tell you what, our Vice President has been fantastic. You compare Vice-Presidents and if you don’t mind, I’ll take the one we have. Okay?
 You talk about a victory at a debate. That was one of the greatest victories at a debate I’ve ever seen. That one wasn’t even close. Our excess mortality rate is 42% lower than Europe’s. Think of that. Where cases are now surging, despite very powerful lockdowns that they’ve been put. In. They’ve had very powerful lockdowns. But don’t take my word for it. I want to just show you something on a screen. Okay? Very special people get this. We have a video on our fight against the China virus and a couple of other quick things. Again, we only do this for extremely important states, ans people. And Go ahead
 You know, I like that, because I save a lot of words. You can never duplicate what you see up there, but you see the governors. Then, they’ll say, although some of them have been actually very good, but we’ve done a great job and you see it there. That’s what their real feeling is. But when they get up to a mic, “Well, I don’t know if he’s done that good.” Now, we’ve done a great job. If you want a vaccine to kill the virus, a job to support your family, and freedom to live your life to the fullest, you have to vote republican. It’s so important. You have to vote Republican. We’re joined today with some really great people and a man that’s right at the top of that list for me, is Senator Ron Johnson. Thank you, Ron. I’m telling you, you’re lucky to have him. He’s a fantastic man. He’s done an incredible job and he’s got a lot of courage too. In Washington, he’s respected by everybody. Also, Congressman Glenn Grothman. Glenn? There’s Glenn. Thank you, Glenn. Mike Gallagher. Thanks, Mike. Great job. Great guys. Somebody that’s done a really good job for us, GOP chairman, Andrew Hitt. Thank you. Thank you, Andrew. How are we doing Andrew?
 All right. Because we don’t, we’re not going to fire you so damn … You’ll be out of here, Andrew. No, I think we’re doing great. Yeah, I think we’re doing great. I also want to thank a legendary champion and a Green Bay Packer, personified Hall of Famer, Brett Farve, for his endorsement. I got, he’s a tough guy. He’s great. But, ,two days ago I saw that he endorsed me and I just want to thank him. He’s a hell of a champion. He’s a great champion. I look at some of his records. You don’t even realize it, but when you look at passing yards and touchdowns, and one thing about him, tough as hell and great and really talented. I want to thank Brett Farve. Thank you very much
 For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations. Now we are rebuilding, if it’s okay with you, our nation. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and replaced it with a brand new UMSCA. Wisconsin dairy farmers were decimated under the Obama and Biden plan. Just think about it. I only ran because of them. I said that during the debate. I said, “Joe, never thought of this, I ran because of you people, because you did such a bad job.” He had no response to that. With the USMCA, are dairy exports to Canada are expected to surge by more than 100%. Okay? Just went into effect and we’re not going to be losing our companies to Mexico and Canada. We’re not going to have our companies close up and get rid of everybody, fire everybody. And move and do the same product in Mexico.
 You saw that. It’s probably the number one reason I ran. I couldn’t stand watching it and it’s going to be, now, they’re going to pay a tremendous economic price if they do that. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. They took millions of dollars from the Chinese Communist Party, while Vice President Biden shipped your jobs to China. How the hell can he negotiate with China with the money they take. The news, they don’t want to cover it. The fake media, the lame stream media and the companies, right? These wonderful companies that obviously don’t love our country. It’s suppression. They don’t want to cover it. If Biden wins, China wins. His son walks in and takes out one and a half billion dollars to manage millions of dollars a year. They walk in.
 Where’s Hunter? He wants to know, where’s Hunter? We haven’t found him. He’s still looking for his laptop from hell. That’s where he is. “Where’s my laptop?” “Hunter, you left it at a repair shop. You’d never picked it up.” You know what they go? “Russia did it. Russia, Russia, Russia, Ron it’s Russia. I know it’s Russia.” I saw Adam Schiff, watermelon head, like this. “I believe that Russia caused his problem. Russia.” Yeah. Yeah. Here we go. Russia, Russia, Russia. We have a great head of DNI. He said, “No, it had nothing to do with Russia.” Put out a very strong statement, nothing to do. If it does, we let it know. We let Russia know. But this is pure, disgusting, evil stuff that goes on. Your tech companies don’t want to put it on you. Even the New York Post, which had real courage by the way, and they endorsed me two days ago. That’s [inaudible 00:52:59] But, they had real courage. They took down the New York Post site. Can you believe it? The New York Post, the oldest newspaper in the country, fourth largest of the country. They took down the site. Now, we got to get to the bottom of it. We will, with guys like Kim, we will. When we win, Wisconsin wins. When we win, America wins, and that’s what’s happening. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in US history. We have now built over 400 miles of wall. We’ll soon be finished. They don’t talk about the wall anymore. They don’t tell you. It used to kill me. I’d to go through with, and fight them and we’d close up and we’d do all sorts of things. They would go after me. Once the wall started, once they saw we had all that money lined up to get it done. The impact it’s had is incredible. It’s not completed yet, but it will be very soon. I built it exactly as Border Patrol and ICE wanted it. Exactly. I said, “What about concrete-”
 … And ICE wanted it exactly. I said, “What about concrete plank?” They said, “Sir, that’s no good. Have to see through.” “Well, how about this? And how about that?” I know it all. That’s what I like. They said, “Sir, we want steel. We, then, want concrete inside the steel, and then, we’d like rebar.” I said, “Can you think of a more expensive way, maybe?”
 But we gave it. And then, we want on top an anti-climb, you know the thing on top? I said, “Why are we doing that? That’s very expensive. The piece of steel on top is four feet deep.” They said, “Sir, that’s called anti-climb. It’s harder to climb.” I gave them everything. Now, they have no excuse. I don’t want to have any excuses. And our numbers on the border are phenomenal, the best we’ve ever had. Joe Biden has pledged to open borders, mass amnesty, nationwide catch-and-release. You know what that is? That’s when you catch a criminal, murderer, rapist, you let the criminal go. We argued about this during the debate. He said, “They all come back for a trial.” No, they don’t come back, Joe. Only the ones, I said, with very low IQs, come back. You have a trial in two-and-a-half years for murder, you have to come back.
 We release them, and I ended it. It’s all ended. Okay. You think that was easy? It’s not easy doing this stuff. It looks easy, but it’s not. Sanctuary cities from coast to coast. They want to have sanctuary cities all over the place, and free healthcare for illegal aliens, which will bankrupt your Medicare and your social security. You will not have social security if you do that or Medicare. We all have a big heart. I do. I want to take care of everybody. The problem is you have millions of people pouring in from all over the world if you do this. As your president, I will protect your borders, I will protect your families, and I will always protect your Medicare and your social security. And I’ve always said it.
 Biden and Bernie Sanders, crazy Bernie, one of the greatest losers of all time, this guy. No, but I meant that in a nice way. He lost, and he went back to the Senate and voted radical left, that he lost again. Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren, all she had to do is get out a couple of days early. He would have won every one of those days, but she decided not to do that. I don’t think she likes Bernie, okay? But Biden will increase refugees. This was agreed with Bernie and the group and AOC plus three, right? Highly educated person on the environment AOC. Have you ever taken a class on the environment? I don’t think so. Increase refugees by 700% from terror hotspots. So, think of that, as 700… This was agreed to. I don’t think Bernie was that bad. I think, actually, Bernie went further left after they made the deal. And I’m keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Okay? If it’s okay with you.
 Look at what’s gone on in France over the four days, what’s happened in France. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, including nearly $6 billion to save the historic shipyard, Marinette Marine, And even more money for combat vehicle manufacturing in Oshkosh. Marinette’s doing a great job. I went to Marinette four or five months ago, looked at what they were doing. We gave the contract to them, which costs me a lot of states, but that’s okay. But we gave that to Marinette. They do a great job. They do a great job. They were ready to close. A $6 billion contract, and it’s going to be extended. They make the most beautiful ship. You have to say, it looks like a super yacht except it’s got weapons all over it. And I would say, “Paint it gleaming white and call it a yacht. But the weapons sort of throw you off a little bit.” You have more guns and things on that. I’ve never seen anything like it.
 Anyway, but they’re fantastic. Biden will close the shipyard down. He would close it down. He will cut your military spending. We need it. And also, it’s all made in the USA. It’s jobs. It’s great. Best stuff. And you know what? Two and a half trillion dollars. We’re the envy of the world. We’re the envy of Russia and China. Nobody has the equipment that we have, nobody. Stealth fighter jets, F-35s. Can’t see them. Tanks, we have tanks. We have submarines. We have everything. What we’ve done… And nuclear, we’ve upgraded our nuclear. We have new nuclear. And all you do is one thing. You pray that we never have to use it. Okay? That’s the big thing.
 But having it and having it in tippy-top condition is the best way that we will never, ever have to use it. It’s the best way. The last administration’s cruel VA policies resulted in deadly wait lists under Biden and Obama. 300,000 veterans died on a waiting list. To fix this travesty, we passed Veterans’ Choice and VA Accountability, accountability for firing bad people that don’t love our vets and take care of our vets, which you could not do under any circumstances, civil service, unions, whatever. And now, you can do it. Jim, you’re not treating our vets right. Get the hell out of here. You’re fired. Okay, go. All right. Now, our vets, instead of waiting for weeks, sometimes, to see a doctor, they go to a private doctor. We pay the bill. And it’s actually, it’s probably less expensive.
 It’s probably less expensive, but much more importantly, we take care of our vets. You had vets getting online. By the time they saw the doctor, they became terminally ill. They actually have become terminally ill waiting for so long. So, now, they get out, immediately see a doctor. And recently, we just got a 91% approval rating for the way we’re running the VA, the vets, from the vets. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We took out the world’s top terrors. Soleimani is dead. Number one terrorist in the world. I went through from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, $150 billion for nothing. You know what? They gave $150 billion, John Kerry. He’s another genius. What a deal that was. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Germany. Presidents have been talking about doing that forever, forever, many, many presidents. They campaigned on it, and then, they wouldn’t do it. And I understand why. It was not easy to do.
 We had tremendous, tremendous pressure on us not to do it, but I did it. I did it. I just didn’t take anybody’s phone call, that’s all. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been working on that for 52 years. I got it done in two hours. And instead of never-ending wars, we are forging peace all throughout the Middle East for no money and no blood all over the sand, no blood. Got countries lined up, want to make a deal. They all want to come in. After all these years. On the other side and everybody, they all said, “You could never do it this way.” No, you could never do it the way they’ve wanted to do it for decades and decades.
 I’ve done more in 47 months than Joe Biden has done in 47 years. A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American dream. And remember, the Republican party is the party of the late, great Abraham Lincoln. Right? Got to remember that. People forget that. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. And we will end our reliance on China, which has already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. They’re dead. They’re gone. We will end the big tech monopoly and restore freedom of speech. We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength.
 We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, already signed, starts January 1st, will be bigger than healthcare. You watch. Lower drug prices even more. And there’ll be down 50%, 60%, 70% because I’ve invoked favored nations. The drug companies, big pharma, they call it, does not like me too much. They have more ads than sleepy Joe has against me. Every time you see one of those ads, remember, your drug, they’re just plummeting. Those prices are coming down. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, right? All right? America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education in our schools. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God, we trust.”
 For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Wisconsin. I am. For some reason, I like you. You know why I like you? Because we had a victory. They didn’t think I was going to win. And we kept waiting for Pennsylvania. It was obvious I was going to win, but the fake news didn’t want to call it because that would have meant the end. And then, out of the blue comes, “Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin [crosstalk 00:10:48].”
 Along with Ron, Donald Trump. I was a very pretty sound. And that was it. That was it. You were the one. You got us over the top. You better do it again. So, get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, and get out to vote. Got to get out to vote on November 3rd, or previous to November 3rd, just get out the vote. Whichever way you want to do it, whatever way you want to do it, you got to get out to vote. This is a very serious… We’re doing.
 Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much, everyone. I appreciate it. On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the rest of the swamp. We’ve drained lot of them. From Madison to Milwaukee, from Janesville to Kenosha, and from La Crosse to right here in Green Bay. I love Green Bay. But I love Kenosha too because we did a great job there. We showed them something, right? We showed them how to stop them. That was sort of easy, but I love Kenosha. We inherit the legacy of Wisconsin Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great, great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. It is. The best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together, we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, and we are doing that. Have you noticed? A lot of things are changing very fast in DC. We need this final step. This final step. It’s going to be something. But with your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Wisconsin, we have made America powerful again. Our military is so powerful. We have made America wealthy again. Look at what’s happening to our country. We have made America strong again. We’re doing it with our credible law enforcement and everyone else. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again.
 Thank you. Thank you, Wisconsin. Thank you. Thank you, Green Bay. Get out and vote, please. Get out and vote. Most important election of your lifetime. Thank you, everybody, very much. Thank you.
 Wow. Thank you very much. That was a little bit of a surprise. That was a surprise. Thank you, Melania. Good job. They love our first lady. They love our first lady. And America is blessed to have you. Thank you very much, honey. That was great. So I’m thrilled to be here in my, our, home state, Florida. I love this state and I love the people of this state. And five days from now, we are going to win Florida and we are going to win four more years in the White House. And we’re going on to win a record share of the Hispanic American vote. You see what’s happening.
 Ah, they’re very concerned back there. The fake news, they are so concerned. Melania, you don’t know too much about them. You’ve seen enough. But they are very unhappy. You know what’s happening, don’t you? You see what’s happening? We’ve led Florida every single day. What’s going on? This is a terrible thing for them. Actually, it’s a good thing for them. They just don’t know it. They haven’t quite figured that out yet. No, we’re doing incredibly in Florida. We’re doing incredibly all over. And this isn’t based on polls, this is based on facts. This is based on votes that are coming in. But you have to get out and vote. We are creating the greatest red wave in the history of our country.
 Oh, it’s been amazing. We’ll talk about it a little while. I want to get some of the little introductions and introductory things out, but we have to talk about what’s going on in our country with the big tech, the power of big tech. They’re incredible. They’re incredible. No, no, no. I heard about the power for a long time. The power of big tech. I heard about it four years ago. “Sir, big tech is against you. They’re tremendously powerful. You can’t beat them.” Then we had the election and we won. I said, “Oh, how did that happen?” And the fake news media, 94% of the stories about us are negative. Think of it. Think of it. 64% of the stories about Sleepy Joe are positive. How the hell do you have a positive story about this guy? How do you have a positive story about him?
 This election is a choice between my plan to deliver historics. And you know what this is going to be, right? Historic. This is historic prosperity. Another major tax cut to go along with the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. And record job growth. And Joe Biden’s plan is to deliver punishing lockdown. She’s going to lock you down. And Florida’s all opened up. You have a great governor. Did he speak too long today or not? No? No, I watched him on the plane. I said, “Oh, look, there’s Ron.” They have the little thing in the box. I said, “Oh look, there’s Ron. He’s speaking.” He looked like he was up there a long time. She said yes. He’s a great governor. You have a great governor. He’s a great guy.
 They want to give you massive tax hikes. The first time that I’ve ever seen … I’ve been with politics all my life, essentially. Only doing this for a few years on this side of it. But we’ve done well, haven’t we? What do you think? A senator came into my office, said, “Sir.” An older guy, nice guy, pro, total pro. “Sir, I’ve been in nine races and I’ve won seven of them. So now I’m a United States Senator.” I said, “Senator, I’ve been in one race and I’ve won one. Now we want to win two. But I won one. But it was the presidency.” We took them all by surprise, didn’t we? We took them by surprise. They’re still trying to recover.
 And you will have a crippling depression, the likes of which you’ve never seen, if Sleepy Joe becomes your president. And your 401Ks, throw them out the window because you know what’s going to happen. And you know our stock market has a big headwind. The headwind is if he wins, and we are doing great. You see the number today? 33.1 GDP. The biggest in the history of our country by almost triple, right? Almost triple. Now it’s very much bigger than any GDP we’ve ever had. You have to go back to the 1950s, and then it’s less than half. This is the greatest number, 33.1%. If you asked me two weeks ago, I would’ve said I’ll take 12%. 12% would have been very nice. Nobody ever heard of 12%. 33.1. And let me tell you what they’re going to do. I never even thought of this one. They won’t even talk about it. This is the biggest event in business in 50 years. Nobody’s ever seen a number like this. This is bigger than any nation. No nation has a number like that.
 Other nations right now, they’re … Look, we were compared to Europe. Germany is doing so well, France is doing so well, everyone’s doing so well. No, they’re not doing well. And you take a look at what’s going on. And we want the best for them, we’re on their team. We want to work with them and everything else, but they’re not doing well. They’re spiking up big, they’re shutting down, they’re locking down. I disagree with that because we’re never going to lockdown again. We locked down, we understood the disease. And now we’re open for business. And that’s what it is. And that’s what it is. This explosive economic growth is four times greater than what the experts expected. They expected a number that would be like 7%, 8%.
 But here’s what’s going to happen. You’re going to go back home. You’re going to say, “That was incredible. Melania was unbelievable. The governor was incredible. I’ve never heard anybody speak like that. Trump was okay too. But we have no choice. We have to vote for Trump because it’s between Trump and Sleepy Joe. And anybody beats Sleepy Joe.” I can take a couple of these guys, they’re friends of mine. They’re not good people. They’re better than Joe. I will tell you. Now, do you believe what I’m running against? I’m running against the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics. I don’t care. Win, lose, or draw. This is the worst candidate in the history. He shouldn’t be there. Because Pocahontas kept going instead of getting out. Then it would have been against Bernie, which would have been fine too. You know what? You would have had a more energetic base if we had Bernie. That’s one thing. Because I don’t know if they have a base.
 Here’s what’s happened. He goes for a speech. They’re showing you thousands. And look, as far as all the way back to that building, as far as the eye can see. And Biden is leaving his basement today, he took the lid off. You know what he does? He takes the lid off, runs to the closest part of Delaware, like if he can get a little piece of Pennsylvania. People in Pennsylvania are wise to him. They know all about his no fracking, no fracking, no fracking. Then he gets to Pennsylvania. He learns it’s a million jobs. And by the way, Pennsylvania, they give us that you can fire up your factories. They give us the energy. And it’s inexpensive energy. So he goes to Pennsylvania. All of a sudden, he changes. “Yeah, so I have nothing against fracking.” And the press doesn’t call him out on it. Right? And they don’t call them out on where’s Hunter? They don’t call him out, where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Is Hunter in the crowd? They don’t call him out. They don’t call him out on where’s Hunter?
 It’s crazy. It’s crazy. Some people said, I get a call from all the experts, right? Guys that ran for president six, seven, eight times. Never got past the first round, but they’re calling me up, “Sir, you shouldn’t be speaking about Hunter. You shouldn’t be saying bad things about Biden because nobody cares.” I disagree. Maybe that’s why I’m here and they’re not. But they say, ” Talk about your economic success. Talk about 33.1%, the greatest in history.” Now, look, if I do, I mean, how many times can I say it? I’ll say it five or six times during the speech. 33.1.
 But you look at that and you look at Tucker Carlson, what he did the other night. Great. Great. And followed up by Sean and followed up by Laura. And the next day, nothing at all, right? Nothing. Nothing in the New York Times, the fake New York Times. Hey, how about Anonymous? Did we see Anonymous? A low staffer. Anonymous turned out to be a guy. I’m trying to figure out, I don’t know who the hell this guy is. So the New York Times said, “A senior white house official.” Nobody knew who he was. Look, we are in big trouble with the press. They are truly the enemy of the people. They are the enemy of the people.
 So this guy goes out, this low life. Well, I never saw him. I think he has a picture of me standing there like I do with thousands of people. This low life goes out and he writes a book. By the way, when he left, he had nothing but praise for the Trump. Oh, it’s incredible. Incredible. Then somebody gets him at the New York Times, the fake New York Times. And all of a sudden, he becomes nasty and he writes. And they say, “A top White House official.” Well, he was a staffer, low, had nothing to do with the White House. He had nothing to do. And he goes in, and you know what? There should be major criminal liability for some scum like this.
 And for a year, everybody walks into my office, Secretary of State Pompeo. I could name every one of them, all good people. I’m looking at them and say, “I wonder if that could be the one.” And it turns out to be this low life that nobody knows who the hell he is. He had nothing to do with us. I don’t think I ever met him. And I might’ve met him. I think somebody said he has a picture of me standing someplace. This is a disgrace to our country. It shouldn’t happen. And he should be prosecuted. Are you listening to me back in Washington? He should be prosecuted along with the New York Times because it was a story made up, it was fake news made up by the New York Times. And you know who he works for now? CNN. He works for CNN Right there. See the camera right there with the light that just went off? See that, honey? That red light just went off. Fake news, CNN.
 And Anderson Cooper asked him, “Are you Anonymous?” And he lied to him. He said, “No,” essentially. Said, “No, I’m not.” And he works for CNN. I would think CNN would be firing him for that, but this is a real low life. You know who else he works for? Google. He works for Google. I think Google should fire him very quickly because bad things are going to happen to him. But think of what he does to our government. Right? It’s like a horrible, treasonous, horrible thing that you can do this and you can get away with it.
 Weekly jobless claims, this is boring but it’s really good, just hit a seven month low. In other words, from the beginning of the pandemic seven months ago. We’re going to have next year the best year we’ve ever had economically. And it’s true. Biden is holding back the stock market because it’s an election, crazy things can happen. Maybe 100% of the people in Florida decide not to vote. You never know. But we have a headwind. So it’s gone down a little bit over the last few days because you’re coming close. And it could be. We’re going to win this election so big. You watch. You watch. We’re going to win so big. And that’s the only reason the market’s going down. The market’s going down because if he gets in, seriously, you’re going to have one of the worst depressions we’ve ever had. You’re going to have. And John Roberts from Fox is back there. And I think he agrees. And John Roberts is very unhappy because he doesn’t want-
 He agrees. And John Roberts is very unhappy because he doesn’t want his 401K to go down the tubes. No, John’s treated us very fairly. Not perfect. He’s not perfect, I will say, but he’s been overall pretty good. He’s pretty good. So, CNN, Google, we got to do something about all of it. New York Times is fake. It’s fake. They write so many fake stories. Thanks to our policies, America is experiencing the fastest and biggest recovery. We’re having the best recovery anywhere in the world. No other country, small or large is recovering like us. Think of that. In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs, the fastest job growth in the history of our country. Our job growth has been 23 times faster than the first five months under Obama/Biden recovery, which was, by the way, the worst recovery since the Great Depression. You do know that, right?
 And just so you know, because all Biden does is talks about COVID. Right? He doesn’t call it the China virus. You know why? Because China has him paid off. He can’t use that term. They gave his son one and a half billion to manage. He makes millions of dollars a year, I assume. Right? The smartest guys in Wall Street said, “No, sir, that could not have happened. We can’t get it.” No, took him about, what, 10 minutes? He walked in, he walked out with one and a half billion. Hey, maybe he’s not so stupid after all. Right? That’s the only thing. I thought he was so dumb. Maybe he’s not as dumb as we think. Look, he cannot take on China. I didn’t say anything. I didn’t say… The biggest story, no, the second biggest story, the worst was when they spied on my campaign and they got caught. That’s the biggest political corruption story in the history of our country, but this could very well be second. And we have what’s called the laptop from hell, the laptop from hell. From what I’ve understood, you only have seen a tiny portion of it, but you know what the press is now doing? They’re blaming Russia. It’s Russia did it. Russia is the one that created the laptop. And Russia brought it into that little shop to have it fixed. Russia. I think Russia’s looking at us, they’re saying, “Those people are stone cold crazy. This is…” No, it was Russia’s fault. They said it. Loud and clear. It was Russia, Russia, Russia. Aren’t we tired of this crap?
 I saw a Schiff the other day, two days ago, watermelon, he looks like a watermelon head. Right? Remember he lied in the halls of Congress. He read my conversation with the president of Ukraine, but it wasn’t my conversation. Hey, how great do we love those people that took down the language, professional military people, word for word for word. If I didn’t have it, it would have been my word against shifty Schiff. Right? Eight times he said quid pro quo. Think of what that means. Eight times you’ve asked for the same thing. After the third time, the guy on the other side would say, “He’s got some serious problems.” I don’t even know him. I called him to say congratulations on becoming president of Ukraine, and for that, I got impeached.
 But you know what we have, we have a lot of great Republicans, and I hope you’re going to be voting for those Republicans, also. Great Republicans. We have one of them here, Mark Meadows. Has anyone ever heard of Mark Meadows? Took me three years to get them out of Congress and become chief of staff. He’s great. He’s here. He was one of our great ones. And you know who helped me a lot? Honestly, in fact, I said, “Don’t run for governor, Ron. Stay exactly where…” He was a Congressman, your governor. Right? There he is. Look at Mark. He’s out there working with the phone. He’s got the phone going. He uses two at one time. Right? But your governor was another one. He stood up… He’s Harvard and Yale. Do you know that? Your governor. He doesn’t talk about it. He doesn’t talk about it. But he would be on television defending me and fighting for me. There was a group…
 Jim Jordan. Did anyone ever hear of Jim Jordan? Jim Jordan, 128 and one. Jim was an NCA wrestling champion. One of the best, one of the best. He was a great one. He was a great one. And when you win like he won, he won everything. When you win like that, it’s also right here. It’s muscle, but it’s got to be muscle attached to a lot of brain. Right? You guys know, the athletes know it. But Jim was great, but Ron was fantastic, your governor. He asked me, he said, “Would you support me for governor?” I said, “No, not really. I’d rather have you stay right where you are. You’re doing a good job of defending me.” But think of it, what we had to do, and we got 197 to nothing in the House. Think of that. 197 to nothing. And then we went to the Senate, and we had 52 and a half to a half. You know who the half? But that’s okay.
 That was the guy that Sleepy Joe Biden he couldn’t remember his name. Remember he said the guy from… The guy from, isn’t he the governor from that place? Utah. Utah. I don’t know his name. I can’t remember his name. It was Romney. No, Sleepy Joe’s a little bit off. Let’s face it, Sleepy Joe is shot. And I’m not a fan of his, and he’s not a nice guy. If he was a nice guy I couldn’t say these things. He’s not a nice guy. Now he doesn’t remember whether or not he used to be a nice guy. He was never considered smart. He was a touchy feely guy. You know those guys? Touchy feely. But not a nice guy. Not a smart guy. Our incredible First Lady is sitting here right now, and she’s saying to herself, “I wonder if all rallies are like this.” No, most of them are a little bit different, but that’s okay. You know why, honey? We’re in Florida. This is like home. This is home. Right? This is home. We say it like it is. We say it like it is. We created the greatest economy in history, and now we are doing it again. See, oh, that hat, that beautiful hat? Let’s make America great again. Right? We’re going to make a new one. Let’s make America great again, again. We did it. We did it. Now we’re doing it again. My First Lady wants to do it again. Under my leadership, the Florida tourism industry and hospitality industry will come roaring back very soon. It’s ready to happen. We’re making the turn.
 We’ve got the vaccines coming very soon. The FDA has worked miracles. They had no choice, they had… This would have taken, if Joe was in charge, you wouldn’t have a vaccine for four years. I was going to say he was in charge of the swine flu. He calls it N1H1. It’s actually H1N1. I say, “Joe, it’s not. It’s H1. H comes…” It’s easy because H comes before N. I said, “Joe, Joe, that’s what it is.” I said, “Just go with swine flu. You don’t have to call it… The numbers are too complicated.” Three days ago he said, “I’m a proud Democrat running for the United States Senate, and I hope I have your support.” Look, we can’t games. You’ve seen enough. Haven’t you seen enough? This is crazy.
 But based on the early numbers I’ve seen, I think you understand exactly what I’m talking about. We have the potential. We have the greatest country in the world, but we have the potential to go to places that we’ve never been in a positive manner. The potential of our country is so incredible, and you see it happening already. You look at Germany, you look at all of these countries, they’re now locked down, they’ve got a lot of problems. You look at our numbers, look at our recovery, fastest recovery. We went down ,the least economically went down by [inaudible 00:08:57]. As much as it’s painful and terrible, we went down the least. We’ve done an incredible job. It was projected that we would lose 2.2 million people. Right? The projections were 2.2 million. By the way, we shouldn’t have lost one person. China should have never let this happen, they should have never let it escape, and we will not forget. We will not forget.
 Biden’s agenda will devastate the Hispanic-American community. He betrayed Hispanic-Americans for 47 years. He’s been very bad to the Hispanic-Americans, and what is happening with those poll numbers? I have the highest numbers. We are now, according to the polls I’m shown, which our real polls, we are now beating the Democrats for the first time ever with Hispanic-Americans. First time ever. First time ever. And I’ve always loved them, and I think they’ve always loved me. First time ever. First time ever. And the fakers back there are going crazy. And now Biden wants to close your small businesses and confiscate your guns. Second Amendment. Don’t worry about it, your Second Amendment.
 We’re letting far left rioters, looters, and vandals roam free. Look what he’s doing in Philadelphia. Look what’s happening. Those are people that he supported. He couldn’t even come out against them yesterday. They asked him a question, he said, “What’s Philadelphia? Where is it? Where is it?” He didn’t know what state it was in. Other than that, he’s doing a wonderful job. Could you imagine losing to this guy? Could you imagine? Our First Lady will have to say, “Darling, I don’t know. This is impossible.” But you have to be very careful when you say that. Whenever I say anything that even uses the word losing, the fake news said, “He is thinking about losing. This is a big story. President Trump thinks she’s going to lose.” No, I don’t. I don’t. I think you’re going to lose, and I think you’ve lost all credibility.
 And our elegant First Lady sits and she says, “What the hell is happening again?” This election is a choice between the American dream and a socialist nightmare. That’s what it is. It’s socialism. I used to say Venezuela on steroids. This would be, if they got in, a very, very, very large version of Venezuela, and it can happen with the Green New Deal and all these crazy… Look, AOC plus three, I heard she’s very insulted that I call her AOC. I’m not. I call her AOC plus three. That’s the three characters that… Ilhan Omar. I’m going to win Minnesota because of Ilhan Omar. She tells us how to run our country. She’s telling us how to run our country. I don’t think so. Ilhan Omar. So, we’re going to win the state of Minnesota for two reasons, her and the fact that when Minneapolis had their problem, they should’ve called us sooner.
 But when they called us, how long did it take? 25 minutes? It was extinguished. We could have done it the first hour instead of waiting for a week and a half. But the governors, they have to call, and I give the governor credit. He eventually called, He eventually called. They should call us, I’ll tell you, Oregon. They should call us in Portland. Oh, would I love to go in with the anarchists. They would last 15 minutes. Our guys, you got to hold them back. They want to… ” Let us in, sir. We’d like to go in.” I meet them. I see troops. “Sir, we’d like to go into Oregon. We’ll take care of it.” I say, “Just calm down. Just calm down.” It wouldn’t take them long. It would take them about 15… How long? And then we’d, well, we’d do things, and then, eventually, they’ end up going home about 10 years later, back home to mom and dad where they started in the basement. Antifa.
 You know Antifa? So, Biden called it an idea. He said, “Antifa’s just an idea.” I said, “No, when you get hit over the head behind your back with a baseball bat, that’s not an idea. That’s not an idea.” Didn’t he call the United States, he called the United States an idea, too. I said, “No, no, it’s not an idea. The United States is a great nation. That’s what it is. It’s not an idea.” He called us an idea, so he puts us in the same category as Antifa. As long as I am president, America will never be a socialist country, and I say it all the Time. This election will decide whether our children will be condemned to the misery of socialism or whether they will inherit the glorious legacy of American freedom. This election will decide whether the Biden Harris…
 How about her? How about her? I’ll tell you what, when our great vice president Mike Pence debated her, it was a total… You know the expression, if it were a fight, they would have ended it. Within two days they were saying, the fake news, “She did magnificently well against Mike Pence.” No, no. No. That’s what happens. You do great, great, great. Two days later, you realize they have it down that you lost now. Mike did fantastically. He’s a great vice president. He works very hard. I’ll tell you one thing. His kids are in the military, and they’re teachers. I guarantee you one thing, Mike Pence has not made hundreds of millions of dollars by scamming foreign countries, because that’s what they’ve done. They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars, and nobody wants to talk about it.
 Look at that. Oh, are they doing that on purpose? Are they friend or foe? I don’t know. Actually, it felt good. I felt water on my face. I said, “Where the hell is that coming from?” They may be doing that on purpose. Let’s find out if they’re friend or foe, and if their foe, let’s take care of those sons of bitches. Look at that. Are you okay? Oh, look, they’re hitting the press. That’s okay. Oh, there go the cameras. There goes a million dollars worth of equipment. Look at that. Wow. That’s cool, actually. And I’ll tell the media, “I have nothing to do with that,” but it is cooling. I’m feeling a little… It’s amazing. It’s amazing. And I say it all the time, because we’ve liked Ronald Reagan, we’ve liked a lot of… Mostly they’re stiffs. Mostly. Generally speaking, they don’t do the job. Right? But we’ve had good ones like Ronald Reagan. He’s the one I think about. But nobody ever chanted… First of all, he’d never get a crowd like this. He’d have two or 300 people, they’d be in a ballroom. That was like the norm.
 You got to see yesterday. We had 35, 40,000 people. We were in Arizona the day before, two days before. We were in Pennsylvania. We did three in Pennsylvania, one bigger than the next, like this. And you know what’s common? The love. It’s all the same. The love is incredible. Love for our country. It’s the love for our country. But there’s never been a chance we love you… I’m watching this guy here. He looks like he could take on anybody in the world. He’s a big, strong guy. I don’t think he’s ever cried in his life before, and I see him wiping away tears. We love you. We love you. This guy, he hasn’t cried since he was a baby and probably didn’t cry then either, and now he’s crying. No, there has never been that chance before, and I appreciate it. And I’m crying. That’s why I ended early. I’m crying, except I don’t want them to say, “You’re president broke down in tears today.” I don’t know. That’s not cool. We don’t want President Xi of China to say, “Gee, I just saw something that surprises me.”
 We’ve taken billions and billions of dollars out of China. We gave 28 billion to our farmers, 28, right out of China. I don’t want to have… But then the plague came in, right? Then the plague came in. That [inaudible 00:43:08] everything… We made a great deal with China. The ink wasn’t dry before the plague came in, so it’s a whole different feeling. I will say, three weeks ago, they ordered more corn, more soy beans, more beef than at any time in the history of this country, so they obviously think I’m going to win. They obviously think we’re going to win, and they want to make us happy, but we’re not happy because that should have been stopped. And it’s not. Here, all over the world, you see what’s going on. Europe. It’s so sad, but you see what’s going on. 188 countries all over the world.
 What China has done to this world, what they’ve done… People come up to me, they’re clothed and masks and stuff and this… Hello, president. Hello. I said, “Look at this, what China has done to our country. What China…” I may do that. You better be careful. What China has done to this country, which it’s not the first time either. Oh, they’re paying. They’re paying. But you can never pay for 200,000 more lives. You can never pay for that. Yeah, we can make them pay plenty, but a 210,000 lives. But it would have been two million lives. It’s incredible the job that we’ve done and that the American people have done. This could have been two million lives. They said 2.2 million lives. No, they’re going to pay.
 We believe in safe streets, secure communities, and we believe in law and order, not like in Philadelphia. And they can’t let that happen. They can’t let the looters run wild. They can’t do it. You can’t. You either have law and order or you don’t. Philadelphia can’t do what they’re doing, and they have good police in Philadelphia. They like Trump. I can tell you. I’ve been endorsed by every law enforcement group. New York’s finest, they endorsed me. They’ve never endorsed a presidential candidate. New York’s finest endorsed me. It was a great honor because I grew up with New York’s finest. And they are, they’re incredible people. They’re not being allowed to do their job. They’ve been way… He cut back a billion dollars, he took back, and now crime is way up. And it’s not even the money, they’re not being allowed… They’re incredible people. Tough as hell, fair, they love our country. They’re not being allowed in New York to do our job. Between the governor and the mayor, they’re being just absolutely…
 And they want to leave. They want to get out. They have plenty of other opportunity. They don’t need the danger. It’s a dangerous job for all police. But we’ve been endorsed by New York. We were endorsed by Chicago police. The Chicago police, that’s… Right? We’ve been endorsed by all of your sheriffs. You have sheriffs. You have great tough sheriffs. I know many of them, but the sheriffs, we had a big ceremony two months ago in Florida. Ron was there. You were endorsed. We got a doors by the sheriffs. All law enforcement all over Florida. And I asked Sleepy Joe at the debate, I said, “Joe, name one law enforcement agency, just one, in the whole country that endorsed you.” He couldn’t do it. Remember? Then Chris Wallace saved him. I had two people. I was going against Chris Wallace and him.
 Chris was much tougher. Actually, Chris was tougher than Joe. And then I said, “Joe, say the words law and order.” No. “Say the words law and honor, Joe. Say them.” And then Chris Wallace, “He doesn’t have to do that.” Oh, okay, Chris. Thanks. No, I like Chris’s father a lot better than I like him. Mike Wallace, the great Mike Wallace. He did me on 60 Minutes. It was a great… It was one of the few good pieces. He was a tough guy. Chris tries to be like him, but he doesn’t have what it takes. But Mike Wallace was a tough, tough guy. And he did me on 60 Minutes, and it was a great piece. He’s never recovered from that originally, but he passed away. He was a great guy and a great, great reporter, I’ll tell you. And he was a friend of mine. He was a friend of mine. That didn’t mean much to Chris.
 All we want is fairness. Right? And I will tell you, Kristen Welker, I thought she was very good. I really do. She shouldn’t have been because she was far left. Her family is a supporter of Democrats. Her father’s a big supporter of Democrat. She’s a supporter of Democrats. Should have been very unfair. I think she went out of her way. And most people say she wasn’t really fair to me, but she was because she always gave me a 10 seconds. She said, “Okay.” See, Chris should have done that, “You have 10 seconds.” 10 seconds to me is like an eternity.
 We did a lot of damage in that 10 seconds, including to get him to admit that he doesn’t want oil. He doesn’t want oil. I said, “Texas and Pennsylvania and Ohio, are you listening? Are you listening?” And you’ll see they were listening on November 3rd. I’m sorry you’ll have to wait till November 3rd. Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Oklahoma, North Dakota, they’re all listening. And you’re listening because you don’t want your energy prices to go through the roof. Right? And Michigan was listening because they want to produce cars and they don’t want to spend all that money on energy where they’re producing all of those factories that I got to go back to Michigan and go back to Ohio and go back to North Carolina and start brand new.
 And I’d see Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I’d say, “Prime minister, we’re tired of taking your millions of cars. You got to let us have factories.” Well, we can’t do that. This is a private decision. No, no, it’s not. You got to do it. But that is not government. I said, “You’re a powerful man, Shinzo.” He just retired. Unfortunately, he got ill, but he was a great man. He was great prime minister. Great guy, too.” But I said, “Shinzo, you have to do it. I’m sorry. We’re not going to take your cars. You got to make them in this country, in our country.” And he said, “I can’t do that, but let me work on it.” The following morning, five major Japanese companies announced they were coming to America, and they did. I called him up, I said, “Shinzo, I know you had nothing to do with it, but thank you anyway.” No, they run it tough over in Japan and China and these other places. Tuesday, your vote is going to save our country. Most important election we’ve ever had. We are going to defeat the Marxists and the socialist and the rioters and the flag burdens and the left wing extremists. We are going to defeat the anarchists, their anarchy. With your support, we will fight for American workers, we will defend our Second Amendment. Don’t worry, it’s very safe. If Biden got in, your Second Amendment is gone.
 If Biden got in, your Second Amendment is gone so fast. You know that. Support our police. Protect our borders. Expand school choice. So important. Ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.” That’s what’s going to happen.
 My plan for America will deliver a safe vaccine. You’re going to have it in a few weeks. It’s coming very quickly. Great companies. Johnson & Johnson. Moderna, Pfizer, many, many companies. You’re going to have it. Seniors will be first in line to get it, and we will make it available to everybody free. It’s not your fault. It’s not your fault. We’re protecting our seniors. If you’re a senior and if you have a heart condition, if you have any kind of a certain type, especially diabetes, you’re in big trouble if you get hit by the China virus. Big, big trouble. So we’re going to make that vaccine. We’re going to make it free, and it’s coming from great, great firms. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus, and by the way, we have it. But whether we have it or not, it’s rounding the turn. It’s rounding the turn.
 Hey. Excuse me. I’m sure you didn’t hear. Nobody heard this, right? I had it. Did you know that? I had to get back on the trail? I said, “This is not good timing.” And I got better very quickly. First Lady had it. She had it, and she got better very quickly. But I’ll tell you who had it also. The doctor went to the First Lady and myself and said, “Barron has tested positive.” I said, “Excuse me, doctor, tested positive for what?” “He’s got COVID.” I said, “Okay.” Then about 12 minutes later, I said, “Doctor, Doctor, how’s Barron doing?” He’s our very tall son. Very tall. Has anybody noticed he’s slightly tall? He’s 14 and I’m saying, “Hello, Barron.” Now he’s great, but he’s strong. But I said like 12 minutes later, Dr. Sean … Great doctor. We have great doctors. One thing, when you are president, you got a lot of doctors. Johns Hopkins, I want to thank them. Walter Reed Medical Center, incredible.
 I mean, Dr. Ronny is now a Congressman from Texas. How about that? Dr. Ronny, he was before Sean, and Sean is now, and Sean has been great. But Sean came up along with other doctors, that Barron had it. About 12 seconds later, I said, “How’s Barron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay. He shed it. It’s gone.” It was gone like in two minutes. I said, “Hey, how come that doesn’t happen with me?” But I wasn’t bad. It was like a day, but they gave me a drug, Moderna. Who the hell knows? This was a very … Moderna makes it. I’ll tell you makes really a great version, they say. Eli Lilly, right? Regeneron. And they gave it to me, and I woke up the next morning and I felt I could have taken the toughest, meanest person in this group. Regeneron.
 Now, I don’t know whether or not it worked. I like to think it had no impact. I made a statement. I said, “Well, I’m in no trouble, because I’m young and I’m in perfect physical shape. I’m a perfect physical specimen.” And CNN went crazy. “He’s not young and he’s not in perfect …” They can’t take a joke. No, but I was better. I was better quickly. I was better very quickly. We reduced the fatality rate 85%, and now we have the lowest infection fatality rate anywhere in the world by far thanks to our unrelenting efforts. And by the way, remdesivir was also approved. It’s supposed to have a great effect. I mean, I said, “Give me whatever the hell you have. Just give it to me.” I wasn’t choosy. You know, the First Lady, “I don’t want anything. I don’t want …” She’s very particular, right? If I say, “Take an aspirin. You’ll feel better.” “No, no. I don’t want an aspirin.” Right? She doesn’t want that.
 Only 3% of hospitalizations are right now China virus. So think of that. So our hospitals are ready if something should happen, but that’s what … I appreciate that. He said, “We trust you.” You can. We are doing the greatest job of this, except with one thing, publicity. Our public relations, we’re spending too much time working and not enough time talking, but no matter what you say to these people, it won’t make any difference. And because of the advances in treatment we pioneered, the survival rate is far over 99% for many groups. It’s 99.9% And for under 70, it’s unbelievably high. For over 70, now it’s getting very good.
 And the drug they gave me, what we’re doing is we’re going to make that available, including the very similar drug, it’s antibody, a very similar drug from Eli Lilly. We’re going to make that available to anybody that needs it should they get the China virus. We’re going to make it available free. So if anybody is going to need it, if anybody’s going to need it.
 Joe Biden’s plan will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, prolong the pandemic, crush our economy. Crush our economy. We can’t do this. Destroy the Florida tourism industry, and lock down our entire country. We’ll be locked down. Under Biden’s lockdown, countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdoses, deferred medical care, abuse. The thing that’s happening to families is … The cure, remember, I said it right in the video, the cure can not be worse than the problem itself.
 And you have Michigan locked down. You have all Democrat governors. You know what’s going to happen? On November 4, the day after the election, they’re going to open it up. They’re doing it for political reasons, because it’s so bad for their state, and they think our numbers are going to look a little worse. California’s pretty much locked down. New York’s got to open. New York is becoming a very unsafe ghost town. Governor, open up the state, governor. Open up the state. You’ll see our governor, he’s going to make a few words in a couple of minutes. Governor from New York is going to be with us in a little while. Are you surprised to see that? You’ll see what I mean. There will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Christmases, no 4th of Julys. There will be nothing. They will allow you nothing. Other than that, he’s doing a wonderful job.
 Europe imposed crushing lockdowns, and today Spain is more than two times more new cases per capita than the United States. France has over three times, and Belgium has over seven times what we have. And I don’t want that. I don’t want that. I don’t want that to happen to them. We’re helping them. We’re sending them thousands and thousands of ventilators. We’ve become the ventilator king. We’re making thousands of ventilators a month. We’re sending them to Europe and all over the world, sending a lot to Africa. They’ll never be able to get them. They’ll never be able to make them. We’ve done an incredible job. Incredible job.
 European lockdowns are not stopping the virus, but they’re creating misery, poverty, suffering, and death. You see the riots in the street of Italy today, in the streets of Italy? And the riots they’re having in France. The people are tired. They can’t do it anymore. They can’t do it anymore. They’re losing their businesses. They’re losing their jobs. They go back and the business is closed for nine months. We can’t do it anymore. They can’t do it. We know the disease. We social distance. We do all of the things that you have to do. If you get close, wear a mask. Always controversial. It’s not controversial to me. You get close, you wear a mask. Social distance. Social distance. You know the bottom line, though? You’re going to get better. You’re going to get better. If I can get better, anybody can get better. And I got better fast. They were so happy. They couldn’t believe it. That was probably the happiest day that they’ve had in years.
 And then I came out of the hospital to wave to the people, the supporters. I heard … These really beautiful rooms. Walter Reed is incredible. The best. The best. And rooms, the glass, heavy glass panels over the windows. And through all of that heavy glass, brick and mortar, I could hear people screaming outside a half a mile away. And they were fans of mine with flags, Trump flags. “We love our president.” And they were there for two days. They stayed there all night. I mean, these people were incredible. And I said to my incredible Secret Service people, there’s one of them, Bobby. I know I’m not supposed to say it. Bobby, I love you, Bobby. I said, “Bobby, I want to go over and see them.” “No problem, sir.” He ripped on that mask. He wouldn’t even think about that. I said, “Let’s go over and see them, Bobby.” By that time I was in good shape. I wanted to get out here with you.
 But we drove in front of those people, and we waved, and the people were so happy. It was incredible. It was. It was a love fest. They were so happy. And I got back and they were saying, “What a terrible thing to do.” No. We got to take care of our people, right? We got to stay with our people, including Secret Service, who does an incredible job. Thank you. Thank you, Bobby. The man. The man. Thank you, Bobby. Thank you, Secret Service. They do a great job.
 For half a century, Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. In 2016, Florida voted to fire the depraved political establishment, and you elected an outsider as your president, who is finally, if you don’t mind, putting America first. That’s what we’re doing.
 Joe Biden is a corrupt politician that the fake news will not write about. They won’t write the story. They won’t write it, and big tech won’t write it. They won’t write the story. There’s the outside of the New York Post, who just endorsed me by the way, thank you very much, so fourth largest paper in the country. Got a lot of great endorsements. We got a lot of great … Jack Nicklaus. You know Jack? But he can do [inaudible 01:01:11] Jack. 78 tournaments he won, and he won 18 majors. Think of that, how great that is. That means under pressure … You need people like that, right? People that can win under pressure. Jack. But Jack gave me a beautiful endorsement. We got endorsements from a lot of newspapers all over. We got a lot of endorsements. If Biden wins, thank you very much. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, Florida wins and America wins. It’s very simple.
 And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. And I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment. It’s because I was elected to fight for you, and I have fought for you harder than any president has ever fought for the people they love. Never.
 Thank you very much. There’s a lot of people … Look where that crowd is. Would you like to change places with some people in the back? I don’t think so. Thank you. Thank you. That’s incredible. What a crowd. But they’re all like this. I tell you, no matter where you go, 35,000, 45,000. They never mention it. They never mention. But with Biden, they never mention it either. I said, “Show the crowd.” You know what? They have circles. Someday, I’m going to hire the guy that does those circles. No, because it’s really good. Big, thick, nice circles. They’re perfectly done. It’s the best part of his campaign, the circles. And usually he’s got five of them. Usually he can’t fill them up with people, so he puts the fake news in the circles.
 And then they don’t ask him questions. Or how about the question they asked him the other day? He’s walking out with ice cream. “Sir, what flavor ice cream is it?” “I don’t know. It’s vanilla, I think.” Then they asked him a real question, he ran into the car, went back to the basement. Does he have the lid on again today? Almost every day. How do you put the lid? You know, when you do the lid, he did it like five, six days recently, that’s like 50% of the campaign. Now they try and say it’s because of COVID. They say the fact that he has nobody at all show up is because of COVID. No, it’s because nobody shows up.
 And I think that’s the ultimate poll, and based on the numbers that we’re getting, we’re going to do really well on Tuesday. We’ll see. Who knows? It’s an election. And if we do win, you’re going to see a stock market that goes through the roof. Your 401ks are going to go up by 50% quickly. You watch. I’m telling you. We know. I know all those guys. They’re just petrified at the thought of having massive tax increases, regulation increases. They said, “We’ve been through that. It wasn’t good.” That’s why they had no growth. That’s why they had no recovery. Slowest ever. Remember I said that. Slowest since 1929. That’s a long time.
 Not only is Joe Biden corrupt, he’s unfit. He has no plan to end the epidemic. It’s all talk, no action, like I said at the debate. 91% to 9%. You know what that means? They did polls afterwards. 91%. A respected poll, 91% said … I have to do it. I have to brag. You know why? They’ll never do it. Do you know the expression? If you can’t get anybody else to do it, do it yourself. No. 91% to 9%. I’m trying to figure out who was the nine. I want to find who these people were. No, it was just a ridiculous. Ridiculous. I think they could have done better, but you know, you never know. Again, this is why. You never know.
 His policies would create a depression, and he wants you to surrender our country. That’s what he wants to do. He wants you to surrender our country to China, to all of these other countries that have taken total advantage of us. It’s really the reason I’m here. If it weren’t for the horrible trade deals with South Korea, with our allies, you know, our allies in many ways treat us worse than the enemy. The enemy, at least we have our guard up. Our allies, what they’ve done to us in terms of military protection and trade is disgraceful.
 And when they come out and they say they like Barack Hussein Obama much more than they like Trump, that means I’m doing my job. You see, Germany said it the other day, and I have roots in Germany. But Germany said it the other day, they like Barack Hussein Obama. And they should, because Germany is delinquent in their NATO payments. Very delinquent. They’re at a half a level, and they’re very rich. They can do whatever they want. It’s not like they don’t have the money. And I call them out. I say, “If you don’t pay, we’re going to start taking our troops out.” And these people go crazy. They go crazy. You watch. Oh, we’ve already started to do it. They’ll pay.
 But I just want to play you a video from a … I was so impressed. It’s a little bit … We only do this for people that we love. We have these very expensive boards that come along, and this is largely a woman that comes from this area. Her husband happens to be a Major League Baseball player. Do you know who I’m talking about? He’s a handsome guy, but she’s far more beautiful, and he’s on Tampa Bay, so he’s right now a little depressed. I don’t know if he’s here or not, but if he is, I want to talk to him and say you did a great job. Kayleigh, please come up here, Kayleigh, and play the video, please. Play the video.
 I mean, who’s going to say it better than Kayleigh? So I want to congratulate you. This is our great looking couple. We almost had the Dodgers. Are they that good a team? They’re pretty good, right? Well, you’re pretty good too, and you’re a great couple, and that’s a beautiful baby. Thank you very much. See? She’s smart. She’s smart. She picked a major league ball player. You know what it is to get the major leagues and stuff. You got to be in shape. You can’t look like these guys out here. No, she’s great. But did anybody say, especially on the pandemic, has anybody said it better than that? That was this morning on Fox, Fox and Friends. And I got to tell you, that group, that threesome, they’re great, right? They’re great, right? That’s a great group in the morning. But she said it on Fox and Friends. Ainsley, Steve, and Brian has been really great, right? Brian’s been great. No, they treat us good.
 We’re thrilled to be joined by your governor, who I know is up here speaking, but I’m going to introduce him a second time because we love him and he’s done a great job, and he loves the people of Florida. Ron DeSantis. Ron. And your Lieutenant Governor, who is a fantastic woman, and she loves her state, Jeanette Nuñez. And we have some warriors you know that used to work with Ron, and without them, maybe I wouldn’t be standing here. Remember, 197 to nothing. Congressman Michael Waltz. Michael. He knows more about … Where is Michael? Michael. You get married yet, Michael? Please get married quickly. You’ll be so depressed, Michael. If you don’t, you’re going to be very, very depressed. Thank you. Thank you. You better do it quick. She’s out of here, Michael.
 He’s out of here Michael. Another great friend of mine and a warrior, Gus Bilirakis. Thank you Gus. Great job. Great job. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. And Greg Stube. Greg, thank you very much. Greg, great job you’re doing, Greg. These people are tough. I’ll tell you what. We have some incredible people in Washington. Attorney General Ashley Moody, who’s doing a phenomenal job. Thank you, Ashley, for everything. Doing a fantastic job. Florida House Speaker Chris Sprowls. Chris. And so young. Florida GOP Chair Joe Gruters. Joe, where are your Joe? Where’s Joe? Joe, how are we doing Joe? You’ll be out of here so fast if we don’t win this election. He’ll be gone. We are doing well. Yep. We’re going to win. If we don’t win, our country will have trouble. And vote for the Congressman and vote for the Republicans. They want to do what’s right. They want to do what’s right and you know it’s the right thing to do. We have Congressional candidate Scott Franklin and Ana Paulina Luna. Great, I put something up. They have my full endorsement. Great going.
 I hear you’re both doing very well. Win please. Doing very well. Great, great. Under my administration, we’re reversing the damage that Joe Biden and his group have done over a 47 year period. We’re bringing the pharmaceutical industry back here and back to regions of Puerto Rico. They took it out of Puerto Rico, devastating Puerto Rico. Joe Biden voted to eliminate those jobs and to send them to China and we’re reversing that and we’ve been reversing it now for over two years and it’s moving very rapidly. Last month, I also announced $13 billion in disaster relief for Puerto Rico. They got hit hard. They’re in a little path that causes problems. You know that right? Lot of hurricane problems. Speaking of hurricanes, you have a lot of hurricane problems too, and I’m always there. Ron, am I always there? Ron calls up, “Sir, I’d like to speak to you.” What is it about? Another hurricane? Yes. How many billion do you need, Ron? But I’m always there. And Rick, I’ll tell you what, Rick Scott’s been great. He’s been great. And Marco Rubio has been great. He’s been great, Marco.
 Very strong guys, strong leaders. Good guys, too. Really good guys. Marco and Rick, you have great people here, great leadership. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in United States history. And we have now built over 400 miles of wall. And we’ll have it finished very shortly. It’ll be finished very soon. You don’t hear about it anymore. You used to hear when they didn’t think I’d be able to pull it off and that was a tough one. They were willing to close up the country over the wall. So I had a party, totally strong party, bad politics, but strong party. Bad policy, but they didn’t want a wall. But I made a really terrible mistake. I should have said instead of we will build a wall, I should have said, “We will not build a wall,” and they would have given me all the money. They would’ve said, “We demand that you build it immediately.”
 But then they said, “Walls don’t work.” And I said, “No walls work and wheels work. Those are the two things that work.” Everything else gets obsolete in about 15 minutes after it’s discovered. Biden wants to terminate our travel bans and surge refugees from the most dangerous places in the world. He will open the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. And you saw what happened three days ago, the beheading in France, and today it happened again. And we give our warmest regards to President McCrone, a friend of ours, a friend of mine, a friend of the first lady. They’re two great people. First lady of France is a great woman. Under the Biden plan, the horrifying attacks in France will come to our cities and our towns. And I don’t want to speak too loudly about this and I knock on wood. This is real wood. This is real wood. I can tell anything having to do with the White House and the president’s real wood somewhere. Oh yeah, here, let me knock on this piece. That’s definitely.
 Look at what’s happened long time, right. I don’t want to say long time. And the first call I get after we win, the first call I get will be from Iran. They’re going to want to make a deal because their country has been devastated. They have been unable to give money to terrorist organizations that they’ve given routinely for years. Their GDP is down 27% this year, which is the highest anybody’s ever seen of any country in one year. Think of it. We’re up 33.1 and they’re down 27 and they’re going to want to make a deal and we want to make a deal if we can. We want them to be a great country, but they cannot have a nuclear weapon. They cannot have a nuclear weapon. And we’re going to help them. We’re going to help them. We’re going to go with them and help them and do whatever we have to do and I hope happens, but I believe that.
 And I even said, “Don’t deal with them now. They’re going to want to see what happens with Sleepy Joe,” because if he won, China will own us. Iran will make another crazy deal where they give them 150 billion or 1.8 billion in cash. Think of that. We have so many things that what we’ve done, the deals that we’ve made. It’s very scary to see. I watch it and I say, “There has to be something wrong because nobody can be that stupid. Nobody can be that stupid.” Under my leadership, we’re keeping the terrorist, extremist, and violent criminals the hell out of our country if that’s okay, if that’s okay with you. Some of you might object because you have that nice liberal point of view, but if that’s okay with you, we’ll keep them the hell out. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, including 11.2 million. Figure this, $11.2 million right here MacDill Air Force Base. Has anybody heard of MacDill? Has anybody in the audience? Mr. Congressman, you’re the one that got it in [inaudible 00:07:05]. Waltz. And we also passed veteran’s choice and veteran’s accountability. They all said it was impossible.
 They said it was impossible. And we took 100% of the ISIS caliphate, destroyed it. And we killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, who they were looking for for 17 years. Al-Baghdadi is dead. And then we took out the world’s number one terrorist by far, the worst in 50 years, Qasem Soleimani is dead. He killed many of our soldiers. He killed many soldiers from many continents, most feared man in the Middle East. He’s gone. I withdrew from the last administration’s horrible Iran nuclear deal. I recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and got the building built for a tiny fraction. You know that story, right? Tiny fraction. I called up our great ambassador, David Friedman. I said, “David, let’s see if we can get it open.” They wanted to spend $2 billion to build an embassy and it would have never happened. I said, “David, go around. Do we have any land that we own? We’re the government. We own everything, right, even in other countries. See what we have.” He calls me back the following day.
 He says, “Sir, we own a great piece, much better than the piece they were going to buy.” We didn’t buy it because I didn’t like it. I didn’t like the location. Does that make sense because I’m in the real estate business? I didn’t like location. Location’s very important. I said, “See what we have.” He said, “Sir, we have a piece that’s much bigger. It’s in a much better location and it has a building.” Now remember, we’re going to spend between a billion and $2 billion. I said, “Well, what’s the building?” He said, “The building is a building that’s basically unoccupied. It’s pretty big. We could fix it up.” I said, “How much?” He said, “Let me get back to you.” He gets back to me two days later. Sir, I think we could do it for 390,000, right. Right. Do you understand that Mr. Congress? So I said, “It’s the first time I’ve ever done this.” I said, “David, that doesn’t sound good. It sounds too cheap. Make it a little more, make it 500.”
 And we did. We did it for 500,000 and it’s Jerusalem. And a friend of mine, Ron Baron, he’s so proud of a wall opposite the elevator. Every time I walk in he shows me Jerusalem stone. I go crazy. Ron, I don’t care. I said, “David, you’re in Jerusalem. It’s very expensive in New York. Can you get Jerusalem stone?” He said, “Yes we can. We have it. We can buy it for nothing.” I said, “Good. Make the building out of Jerusalem stone.” So he made it out of Jerusalem stone. We had it opened four months later for $500, 000. Not only would it have cost more than $2 million, you wouldn’t have that building built for 25 years. So we did something a little different. We got something done for a tiny, tiny fraction of what it was supposed to cost. And we had it open in three and a half, four months. And it’s now our embassy. It’s a great embassy and it’s recognized. Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. Sort of a great story.
 And I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They’ve been working on that for 52 years. We got it done in two hours and it’s not easy. And every president wanted to do those two things for many, many decades, but they couldn’t. And I understand why they couldn’t. A lot of pressure, a lot of pressure against. And instead of never ending wars in the Middle East, we’re forging peace deals all over the place. You see it. No blood in the sand, no blood in the sand. No cause. Biden and Obama made a pathetic one-sided deal with the Castro dictatorship. My opponent stands with socialists and communists. I stand with the proud people of Cuba and Nicaragua and Venezuela in their righteous struggle for freedom and we’re winning. We’re winning it. It’s going to be easy. We’re winning. The last administration also negotiated the terrible Obama Biden Santos deal with Colombian drug cartels, surrendering to the Narco terrorists.
 You know what that means? That means drugs. Our first lady sits on our commission. She chairs the commission of drugs and on drugs in America and how to get rid of it. It’s a blue ribbon commission, right. And we’re down 19%. We had a little setback with the recent problem with the China virus, but it’s getting back under control, but she’s taking it down 19. She and the commission have taken it down 19%. And she doesn’t want it mentioned. She doesn’t want to talk about it. She doesn’t want to talk about it. See if it would be sitting in her position, I’d be holding a news conference. I have done an incredible job. No, I’m only kidding. I’m only kidding. I’m only kidding. But she has done an incredible job. Thank you honey. Thank you. Thank you very much. Under my administration, we worked with Colombian officials to seize or disrupt 227 tons of poisonous narcotics since April alone. The fact is I’ve done more in 47 months than Sleepy Joe Biden has done in 47 years. It’s true.
 It’s true. No administration in the first 3 and a half years has done what this administration has done. We’ve rebuilt our military. We’ve done the biggest tax cut in history, biggest regulation cut in history. What we’ve done is incredible, even environmentally. I’ll tell you what. We’re not going to go over a list, we’d be here all day, but no administration. And the fake news doesn’t even call me on it. Usually, if you make a statement, they think it’s 1% off. It’s a headline the next day. In the coming weeks, we will distribute a vaccine, defeat the virus, and complete the great American comeback. We’re in the process. A vote for Republicans like these people right down here is a vote for the great American dream. That’s what it is. I remember Abraham Lincoln, the great, the legendary Abraham Lincoln was a Republican. Would you please remember that? Nobody knows that. They know it now because I like to say it. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already started. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. Your 2nd Amendment will be defended. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. And I told you, we spent two and a half trillion with a T, trillion dollars, trillion on our military. We have to finest rockets, the finest missiles, the finest jets, F-35s. We have the finest tanks and submarines and ships all made in the USA. And our nuclear stockpile, we are in a position like no other country in the world. We are the envy of every country, Russia, China, North Korea. No country in the world has what we have. And just a lot of religious people in this audience, pray to God that we never have to use it. And it’s more likely that we won’t have to use it now that we have it, but just hope that we never have to use it.
 We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices even more, and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. That’s already happening Nest. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto in God we trust. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now, you have a president who’s standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Florida. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your boss. Pull them out of their chair. Come on, boss. And you got to get out and vote. There’s never been an election more important. On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the rest of the swamp. We’ve done a lot of it.
 From Pensacola to Miami, from Orlando to Jacksonville, and from Tallahassee to right here in Tampa, we inherit the legacy of… You know it, right? We inherit the incredible legacy of Florida Patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, dug out the Panama Canal, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism. And from right here in this beautiful state, landed our brave American astronauts on the face of the moon. You’ve done a lot. We made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world and the best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We’re winning. We are winning again. We are winning again. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Florida, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Florida. Get out and vote. Thank you.
 That’s a lot of people. Wow.
 Thank you very much. This is quite a crowd. This is quite a crowd. Thank you very much. Hello, Arizona. Hello, Arizona, and hello to everybody right here in Nevada. I love Nevada too. You got Nevada. We have Arizona. How many people are from Arizona? How many people are from Nevada? Not bad, not bad. That’s not bad. Six days from now, we are going to win Arizona. We are going to win Nevada, and we are going to win four more years in our great White House.
 Ah, look at the fake news back there. There’s a lot of them. There’s a lot of them. I got a poll this morning. We’re one up in Wisconsin, right? We were there last night. It was very cold. It was very cold, but we had a great time. A tremendous crowd like this, a tremendous crowd. Then, tonight I hear, last night that I heard, but this morning I get a fake poll. We’re one up in a real poll. We’re even, or whatever, but we’ll end up winning it. But I get a poll, ABC, Washington posts, they’re fakes. Trump 17 down in Wisconsin. 17. Think of it. Think of it.
 They tried it last time, four years ago too, and that didn’t work out too well. It’s just unbelievable how dishonest the media is. I say it because there they are, just very dishonest people. Very dishonest. To vote for me, is a vote for massive middle class tax cuts, regulation cuts, fair trade, strong borders and American energy independence. It’s a vote to support our police, support our military, defend our Second Amendment, which is siege, stand up to China and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase. You know what the phrase is? Made in the USA.
 We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, and a safe vaccine is coming very quickly. You’re going to have it momentarily that eradicates the virus and we’re rounding the turn regardless. You know that. We’ve got the vaccine. I say, regardless, they’ll say, “Well, maybe you don’t.” We have it. Great companies, and quickly ends the pandemic. Should have never come here from China. They should have never let it out. We’ll never forget. All over the world, all over the world. You see what’s happening in Europe, all over the world. Normal life will fully resume. That’s what we want, right? Normal life. Normal life.
 Next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. A vote for Sleepy Joe Biden, and he is a sleepy guy. I tell you what. It’s a powerful party and the party is totally joined with a fake news radio, the lame stream media right there. They’re totally joined with the big tech. I don’t know. Section 230. Does anyone know what Section 230? You do. Section 230, I think wha? Tremendous corruption on behalf of the Biden. Tremendous. Do you know you can’t find it anywhere in the media, other than the New York Post, which I’m very proud of, and they endorsed me the other day too, by the way.
 But, you can’t find it anywhere in the media. Anywhere. It’s not on any of the, it’s not in Facebook. They have trending. They always put me trending. They’ll give you 25 things I’ve done over my life. They make it negative, always negative trending. But Sleepy Joe Biden, with all the corruption, all the theft, all the money they took out of these countries, that we end up paying for in spades. You can’t find it on big tech and you can’t find it at the Washington Post, the New York Times, because they’re crooked, they’re dishonest, and we caught him. We caught him, just like we caught him spying on our campaign. Just like we caught him spying on our campaign.
 We caught him spying.
 A vote for Biden is a vote for the biggest tax hike in the history of our country. This is the only guy I’ve ever seen … He’s campaigning because he has no clue. He’s shot. Just so you understand. I’ll say it, because I’ve said, “Hey, I’ve seen enough. I’ve seen enough. Here’s a guy, gets caught and the media doesn’t want to write about it.” You know what? They call it? Not freedom of the press, suppression of the press. We don’t have freedom of the press. You know what? We don’t have … you understand that? We don’t have freedom of the press. We have suppression of the press. There’s never been a time when it’s more obvious than right now. Is that right? Is that right, Charlie?
 Hi, Dan. He wants crushing regulation. By the way, he doesn’t want them. He has no idea where he is. They carried him off the stage yesterday. Give me a break. His people grabbed him, “Get him off, get him off.” He’s trying to make it to the finish line. I mean, it’s honestly, it’s a disgrace. The whole thing is a con job. He should have never been the candidate. You know what? They have a corrupt party and all of this work being done by big tech and being done by the media, that should be considered a major, massive, billion dollar campaign contribution because that’s what it is. They slashed Medicare and Social Security. He wants to knock out your Medicare, your Social Security, and he wants to abolish a thing called American energy.
 You see that, right? No fracking. There will be no fracking. No. For a year, he’s going no fracking. He gets the nomination. He goes to Pennsylvania. They tell him, “Joe, you have to change.” “Okay. What do you want to say?” “I love fracking. Say, I love.” He goes from no fracking, to I love fracking. A vote for Sleepy Joe Biden is a vote for open borders, off-shoring jobs, shredding your Second Amendment, which is totally under siege, by the way. You’re so lucky I’m your president.
 Thank you. Thank you. What a nice group. By the way, we are substantially up in a state known as Arizona. You know about that, right? Substantially. I hear we’re up in Nevada. Is that right? Michael? We’re up in Nevada. We’re a little concerned with all those ballots floating around in Nevada, got a lot of ballads floating around in Nevada. You got a lot of ballots floating around in Nevada. Hey, you know, it’s windy as hell out here. I said, “Is it windy? Should I bring a hat?” Because, I don’t Love my hair flopping around. One thing, at least they figured out after three years than it is mine. If it wasn’t, I would have found out about it today.
 Should I put on a hat?. Should I put it on? Like Nice hat. I want to know, who has worn this hat before? That’s all I want to know. It’s pretty nasty. Am I allowed to do it? I’ll do it, if you want. Otherwise … what a guy. Yes? Better? Nice hat. We’re going to change your hat. We made America great again. We created the greatest economy in the history of the world, and then we had the plague come in from China, and now we’re doing it again. Our numbers are unbelievable. By the way, you’re going to have a very big number. I even say, hold off in your vote until it happens, because a lot of you want to wait until Tuesday anyway, which is going to be a great, great red wave.
 But you know what? Before that happens, I don’t know what it is, but the Atlanta fed just predicted a very big number, biggest in the history of our country. You’re going to have GDP coming out. It’s going to be announced. It’s going to be announced probably on the first, maybe a day before the first. If that number is not big, you don’t even have to vote for me. Okay? I think it’s going to be, maybe, the biggest number in the history of our country. GDP. That’s your big number Right? I’m taking a chance when I say that you don’t even have to vote for me. Okay? Who here, is voting for Trump.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good of you to get out now. Is anybody sending in a ballot, or you’re going in and doing it the old-fashioned way? That’s what I did. I just did that. But whatever you do, you have to go out and vote. Who here, is going to vote for Sleepy Joe Biden. I had a leader of a country call up. He’s a very tough leader, tough as hell. They’re going to figure it out, maybe. Although they wouldn’t, if it was right, if it was good, they were not going to report it. He said, “I hope Biden doesn’t win because he’s always slipping.” That was an interesting thing he said.
 This is a killer. Says, “I hope he doesn’t win, because he’s always sleeping.” Here. I thought he was being funny. I said. “You happen to be right about that.” This election is a choice between a Trump super-recovery and a Biden depression. You will have a depression, the likes of which you haven’t seen before, maybe 1929. He wants to raise your taxes, put regulations back on. Remember this. Get rid of your Second Amendment. Remember this. Remember this. Pro-life, anybody pro-life? There’s so many differences. This is the single biggest election, in my opinion, and I never thought I’d say it, in the history of our country.
 This is the biggest. The biggest in the history of our country. It’s a choice between a Trump boom and a Biden lockdown. He’ll close it up. He’ll close it up. It’s really something. We talk about the American dream. We had the American dream. It was all coming together. There was going to be, believe it or not, unity. I was getting calls from people, you wouldn’t believe it, and then we had this thing can come in. It came in and it came in very … The invisible enemy came in and we went back to work and we saved 2 million people. It was going to be 2.2 million people. We say, maybe more than that, but it’s a choice between the American dream and a socialist nightmare. That’s what it is. The reason it’s such an important, is because, you’ve heard me say it many times, our country will never be a socialist country, and that’s where they want to take us.
 That’s where they want to take us. I’m fighting for the dreams of all Americans, including millions of truly amazing Hispanic-Americans. Who’s Hispanic? Who’s Hispanic? Oh, they’re shocked. They don’t believe it. The polls with Hispanics are through the roof. They’re reporting on it. I said, “I never had a problem. I always liked Hispanic,” but they’re really, they’re getting to understand me and the incredible progress that we’ve made. The polls with Hispanic- Americans are the highest ever, in the history of our country for a Republican. But it could be that we’re going to top them, and once we top them, you’re going to forget about them because we’ve really gotten along. The poll, by the way, who saw the debate the other day? Did anybody. Anybody watch it?
 You see the poll? 91 to nine. That’s I don’t know [inaudible 00:15:31] 91 to nine. That’s not bad. I got angry at the media. I thought it should have been better than that. I felt like Perry Mason, because he admitted right in the end, his last name. I said, “Does that mean you don’t like oil, Joe?”Ah, ah, well, ah, ah.” No, it’s Perry Mason. Do you ever watch? Colombo? How about Colombo? It’s the same thing. Right at the end, does that mean, oh did he blow it? They’ve been working for five days and then they had to go to Pennsylvania where fracking’s a big deal, right? How about Texas? You think they like him in Texas? No oil. Think of this. No oil, no guns. Second Amendment. No God, religion. Then I hear, Trump has a one point lead in Texas. I don’t think so. You know, I used to hear this four years ago, all the time.
 He cannot win the great state of Ohio. He must win it. We won by eight points. Trump has never done this before. He cannot win Texas, under no circumstances. He can not win Texas. We won. I don’t know, by a lot, whatever it was. Remember Utah? We had the guy from Utah. He was a specialist in Utah. He was going to win Utah. He came in third. Even crooked Hillary beat that guy. Remember, he shaved his head. Nice shaved head. Nice guy. Do you remember his name? Yeah, I remember his name. He’s one of the others, another rhino. We have, we’re against a lot.
 Jesus. I didn’t start it. I didn’t start it.
 I’m an innocent bystander. Every time that starts, “He started it,” so I always act extremely innocent. They start … All I have to do is mention her name, crooked disgraceful, deplorable, irredeemable. They said, deplorable and irredeemable. Who have thought her speech would have turned out to be, she came out, she said, “Deplorable,” but she also said irredeemable. To show you what I know, I said, “Oh, she used the word irredeemable about our people.” But it was deplorable that caught on. Right? But, whoever her speech-writer is, I don’t want him or her. That was a disaster, but I never thought it was going to be that bad. The next day I showed up at a rally. Everybody said, “I’m a deplorable, I’m a deplorable.”
 Oh boy. But she was a lot smarter than Sleepy Joe, but they’ve got a little bit different kind of a thing going right now. They’re more desperate. They’re more desperate. They’re totally desperate, because they have a candidate … I mean, let’s not kid ourselves. They took him off the stage yesterday. You saw that, right? He called me George. He thought I was George Bush. He called me George. It’s unbelievable. I didn’t know if I was happy or if I wasn’t, because he called me … I mean, and his wife was sitting right next to him and she’s looking like, “Huh?” [inaudible 00:18:42] You could see she was under great, great stress. For the last four years … by the way, these suckers are moving like hell. I think, let’s go off those. Isn’t it nice to have a president that doesn’t need a teleprompter? Right?
 They are moving like crazy. They are moving like crazy. And that’s okay with me.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you and I love you. I do. I love you. I love you. You know, that’s a phrase and they say it, I think even the fake news would admit it. Nobody’s ever heard, “We all liked Ronald Reagan.” But nobody ever said, “We love you. We love you. We love you.” And he wouldn’t get crowds like this. If Ronald Reagan who I consider to be top-notch. If he came here, he’d have a couple hundred people legitimately. He’d go into a ballroom someplace inside. He’d go into a ballroom and it’d have two, 300 people. And that’s what the standard was. We’re having 25, 30, 35, 40, 45,000 people.
 And I’d leave some of these crowds, we were packed in Florida and all these places. And I’d leave some of the crowds and I’d look at that. Look at that. You can’t even see the end. You can’t even see. If they were legitimate, they never show it on camera. They never show it on camera. Get the mic turned up. Turn it on. They never ever show it. They don’t like to show it. You know what they do show? Barack Hussein Obama yesterday. They made the mistake. The camera’s slipped and they showed his crowd. He had about 20 people that there. Barack Hussein.
 Which was about 10 people more than Sleepy Joe had yesterday. You know he saw. We were in Pennsylvania. Right? You saw that. And we had three rallies all in Pennsylvania. It was incredible. Thousands and thousands and thousands of people. And Joe was in his basement and he saw it, and his handlers much more importantly saw it. They say, “Sleepy Joe, we have to get you out of here. We got to move you in there. I mean, it’s not looking good.” Because you know they put a lid on. You know a lid for a garbage cans. That’s where it comes from. They put a lid on and he has a lid today again. The guy’s got lids every damn day.
 And then he said he doesn’t want to have big crowds. Really? Because of COVID. He’s such a great citizen. He’s such a great guy. Then why did he cheat so much with Hunter? Where’s Hunter, by the way? Where’s Hunter? Where is Hunter? Remember we did the T-shirt where’s Hunter? It’s all I got. Now we have it’s called the laptop from hell. The laptop from hell. It’s the greatest laptop I’ve ever seen. This thing is gold. It’s gold, except for the news that doesn’t want to look at it. They refuse to look at it. This is the laptop from hell.
 It’s the worst. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it, except for Anthony Wiener, that was a long time. I would rate Anthony’s maybe even worse. I don’t know. Anthony, that was not good. For the last four years I’ve been delivering the Hispanic Americans a message like they haven’t heard for a long time. I’m fighting for school choice. Right, right? School choice, big deal.
 Safe neighborhoods. Hispanic-owned small businesses. We have great, great business people here. I know some of them. I’ve helped some of them [inaudible 00:22:51] incredible, oh these people don’t know what the hell they’re doing. Let me recover my ears for one second. Who did this microphone, don’t pay them. You know I have a reputation for not paying and it’s a false reputation. When somebody does a lousy job like a microphone that’s no good or like teleprompters that fly with the wind. I say, don’t pay him. But we love our incredible Hispanic American members of law enforcement that we have a lot of them here today. We achieved the lowest Hispanic in America, right? The lowest Hispanic American unemployment ever recorded, not even close. And we’re getting back to those numbers again. The last number of months, 11.4 million, a record. People were hired. Joe Biden would obliterate every single thing that we’ve done. He’s looking to do that. He’s looking to obliterate our tax cuts. He wants to. So we gave tax cuts, the biggest in history. He wants to end the tax cuts. He wants to end the child tax credits, a thousand dollars per child. He wants to end up them.
 Wiping out your small businesses with lockdowns, regulations, gutting your police departments and devastating your families with the massive tax hikes. I said it’s the biggest in history. It’s not going to happen. You know why it’s not going to happen? Because he’s not going to win. We can’t have win. He will attack religious liberty and his running mate, the most liberal member of Congress, she makes Bernie Sanders look like a super conservative. Okay? I don’t think she’s for the people of Arizona or Nevada.
 And we want to know who are their judicial nominees? Who are they? Who are you going to put on the court? You know they want to pack the courts, right? How do you like our nominee Amy? Right? Biden wants to ban charter schools, fund extreme late-term abortion. You know he wants to fund late-term even beyond late-term. You saw the governor of Virginia, the child is born and then they make a decision as to execution of the child. You saw that. The governor of Virginia and Biden, Biden totally supports him and surrender your country to the violent socialists mob.
 Take a look at Philadelphia last night, take a look. And we offered to go in. We’d stop that in two minutes. We offered to go in and they said, “Stand back. Stand back to the police.” The police want to do their job. They don’t want that to happen. They’re good. I think they endorsed me too. Everybody. All police departments endorse me. That’s why we are going to win a record share of Hispanic Americans, of African Americans, of Asian Americans. We’re going to win a historic share of women.
 Remember, last time? “He will not get women.” Remember? “He will not get women.” Well, it didn’t work out that way. Right? “The end of the night, I don’t know what happened. He got a lot of women.” We did very well with women. You know why? Women are very smart. They want security. They want safety. If they’re from suburbia, the suburban women, they give me a hard time on suburban women, the fake news. You know what they want? They want security and they don’t want their neighborhood destroyed. And I ended the regulation that would destroy their neighborhood.
 But I’m not just running against Joe Biden, I’m running against a left-wing mob and the left-wing media, the big tech giants. And I’m also running against the RINOs. Do you know what a RINO is? A RINO may be the lowest form of human life. I actually sort of liked the others better than the RINOs. You know why? Wow. That plane’s about four-days-old and we have all brand new equipment at F-35s and everything. We’re the envy of the world. You know what? We are the envy. Do you know about that, Dan? Look at the sucker. He’s tried to show off to the president. Yeah, that’s one of ours. I’ve got to be sure about that. Got to be careful.
 And they have nothing, but disdain for you and for your values. They lecture you on open borders. By the way, we don’t have borders. They want to have open borders, you know? We’re just now completing the wall. The wall will be finished very soon. Mexico will be paying for the wall by the way. They lecture you on everything. If a country doesn’t… I love that sound. I love it. You don’t know what I went through to get those suckers up there. I had to get that money from the Democrats. Oh, look at that. Look, look, look. Oh, look at that. They gave the president the little display. Wow. How about that? How about that.
 I wonder if the fake news caught that. Did you see that camera? Because they never turn the camera. They don’t want to show anything that’s good. Wow. That was something, huh? So they were trying to get our attention with the independent over here and he got my attention, even though he was very high, but that was beautiful. Nobody in the world has the equipment than we have. Listen to that. Ah, I love it.
 You don’t know hard it is to get Democrats to pay for that stuff. They don’t realize how important it is. They support crippling lockdowns while their jobs remain totally exempt. They keep your kids out of school and you know what they want to teach you in school? We don’t teach that in school. We’ve ended that. Their families, they have private tutors. They want to take away your guns. Your second amendment. Your second amendment is so under siege, but we’re going to keep your second amendment. Nothing’s going to be changing.
 I don’t see the people of Arizona or Nevada, about 19% of the people here are from Nevada. Oh, don’t worry. I just left them Nevada by the way. I’ll be back there very soon. And they all have armed guards. We got to tell these people don’t have armed guards. They don’t want you to have guards. From now on, no more armed guards. Let’s outlaw armed guards. You like that, right?
 How about Nancy Pelosi? She goes into San Francisco and she wants to get her beautiful hair redone. And she ends up with a total Trump supporter as the owner of the beauty parlor. I like that woman. I’ve got to go and have my hair done by that woman. She was great. Man is it windy. [inaudible 00:30:43] I think It’s from the F-35 that we just saw. With your vote, you can send a wealthy liberal hypocrites a message that they’ll never forget. Under Biden’s cruel and census lockdowns, countless Americans will die and you know this. From suicide drugs, deferred medical care.
 There’s so many different things. The cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. And Arizona you’re opened up, but Nevada, get your governor to open up your state please. Get them to open up your state. Nevada, get them to open. Get them to open it up. If you vote for Biden, your kids will not be in school. He wants to shut it down. He was saying the other day just, did you see? “Oh, we’ll shut it down.” Let me tell you it is devastating for our nation. And we did just the right thing. We closed it down. We understood the disease. It affects as an example, me. Guess who had it? I had it. I’m sure none of you heard that story.
 In fact, this rally. Usually we set up the rallies. We don’t call them rallies anymore, we call them friendly protests because you’re allowed to protest, but you’re not allowed to go to church. You’re not allowed to have dinner with your friends. You can’t do anything. Right? You can’t do anything. So we call everything a protest, this way we have no problem. No, we have states where you can only protest. You can’t do anything else. So we cancel rallies then I had the idea. I said, “Wait a minute. Let’s just go to protest.” We had a lot of people. We had a good time. With Sleepy Joe, that’d be no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgiving. They’re already talking about no Thanksgiving. And in California you have a special mask. You cannot under any circumstances take it off. You have to eat through the mask. Right? Right, Charlie. It’s a very complex mechanism. And they don’t realize those germs, they go through it like nothing. They look at you with that contraption and they say, “That’s an easy one, I’ll go right through with the food.” Now how about California though? Where you’re supposed to eat with the mask. You can’t take it off.
 You see, people? And boy you know when you have spaghetti and meat sauce, that mask is not looking. You walk out, it looks like you got into a fight with Dana White. Where’s Dana? You fought one of Dana White. I saw Dana White. Does anybody know who Dana White is? It looks like you got into a fight with one of his fighters, right? Now, you don’t have Christmas. You don’t have the 4th of July. Now, we got to get back to normal, but you got to open up the states.
 By the way, just so you know, on November 4th, they’ll announce your state is open. And on November 4th, all of a sudden the COVID, COVID, COVID. You turn on television, we have great numbers. We have some incredible numbers. You know, mortality is way down and way better than Europe and other places. All sorts of things are happening with therapies, the therapeutics, cures, I think maybe a cure. I wasn’t feeling great. And I was surrounded by doctors and they gave me something and the next day, I felt I could take this guy in a fight like no problem, no problem.
 But Sleepy Joe, I don’t think Sleepy Joe would be a good fighter. Do you? I asked Dana before. One gentle little touch to the face and he’s down. He’s down and he wouldn’t get up very quickly either, would he? Joe Biden’s only idea, remember he said, “I’d like to take him to the back of the barn.”
 Okay. Have I ever said that to him? That’d say, “He practices violence. The president practices violence.” No, that’s right. Remember he said? “I would take him to the back.” That’s like if you have to fight somebody, that’s your dream fight. Right? Sleepy Joe. This guy never leaves. You know, he never leaves. They have something because I’m doing three, four of these a day and you think that’s easy, right? The sun is blazing. The wind is going crazy. I did one last night in Michigan, it was about 30 degrees and it was raining and the rain was going sideways like one of these jobs.
 But we had an incredible crowd of people because you know, they’re all great. They’re all like us, the same. They love our country, that’s what they do. They love our country. I brought so many auto plants to Michigan. If I don’t win Michigan, that would be a tough one. And look what we’ve done for this one here. Look, both of you, both of you for both of your states. The Biden [inaudible 00:35:51] These guys. Yeah, that’s right. You can. No, it’s probably a RINO is operating the thing. They’re having a bad day today. They’re having a bad day, but we’re having a good day. Thank you. It’s all right. Don’t worry. Hey fellas, don’t worry about it. It’s okay. Don’t worry about it.
 The Biden plan will crush you, will crush your family. We will crush the virus and you will have an economy the likes of which we’ve never had before, better than last year. You had your best year ever last year. This is going to be better and you see where we’re going. It’s a super V. It’s a super V. Since the China virus arrived, we’ve air lifted amounts of material the likes of which nobody has done since the second World War. It’s one of the greatest ever. Nobody has done since the second World War.
 We pioneered groundbreaking therapies and I’m telling you we’re down 85%. Think of that. Think of that. Down 85%. Nobody has any idea what that means and that’s all been done within a short period of time. And you know, I say it. So I had it, my wife had it, our great first lady. Does everybody like our first lady? She’s great. She made a speech yesterday in Pennsylvania and they loved her. She made a speech. She’s a very elegant woman. She gets it almost as hard as I do. They go after her and she’s cool. She’s very cool. She goes, “Oh, that’s okay. No problem.”
 Me, I want to go get them. I want to. She goes, “That’s no problem. That’s no problem.” She’s got a very extreme confidence somehow. She’s just, “That’s okay. It’s all right.” She says, “That’s their problem, not my problem.” How cool is that, right? But she did a great job. She got-
 How cool is that, right? But she did a great job. She got actually great reviews. She made a speech in Pennsylvania and it was fantastic. She’s a great first lady. She really loves you. She loves our country. But she had it. She got better. I had it. I got better. But Barron had it. Barron. Baron is my young son who happens to be very tall. He’s tall. Hi, Barron. How you doing? Barron’s 14. When you’re six-foot-five and you’re 14, that’s pretty tall. I walk out of the helicopter with Baron. “Hi, Barron. You having a good time?” But he’s strong.
 The doctor, Sean, he’s a great doctor. He goes… He’s the White House doctor… “Sir, Barron has tested positive, sir, sorry to inform you.” I say, “Oh, that’s bad. What does that mean? Positive for what?” He goes, “For COVID.” You know, we have about 30 names, China virus, the Plague, whatever you want to… the plague from China. We have to be accurate. “Barron has tested positive.” And I said, “That’s too bad.” Like two minutes later I said, “How’s Barron doing?” “Oh, it’s okay. It’s all gone.”
 99.9%, right? You know, they have strong immune systems, much stronger than our immune system. Much, much stronger. I’m working to make the breakthrough treatment that I received. And what we’re going to do is we’re making it, because I had a thing called Regeneron. We’re going to make it available to anybody that needs it, free. Free. And I do suggest it. Now, I don’t know if it helped me or is it just a power?
 You know, I made a statement. I made a statement and they took it very seriously. CNN, fake news, total fake news. And I got better very quickly. And I said, “Well, I should, because I’m a perfect physical specimen and I’m very young.” They went crazy. “He is not young, and he is not a perfect specimen.” They went crazy. They went crazy. They have no sense of humor whatsoever, do they, huh?
 Thanks to our relentless efforts, 97% of all emergency room visits, 97% are for something other than the virus. Think of that. Because we understand it now. We understand it. People are getting better. And, you know, you’re immune. That’s why I could jump right there… See those men? I’ll kiss the men. I’m not into that, but I will kiss every man there and kiss every woman there, if you don’t mind, also. They won’t catch anything. And you know what? I won’t catch, because they say…
 And until I came along, they said, “If you have it, you get better. You’re immune for life.” But when I said, “I had it. I got better,” they said, “You’ve only got four months.” They’ve changed the whole medical standard. If it was anybody else, it was good for life, right? But with me, they said I’m now good for four months. Nah, I think a much longer period, but who the hell knows? Well, we’ll know soon enough.
 We’re on track to deliver 100-million doses of a really great, safe vaccine. And we have some of the greatest companies in the world. They’re right at the doorstep. And if I weren’t president, if you had Sleepy Joe as your president, it would have taken you four years to have a vaccine. You would have never had a vaccine. What we did with the FDA, they said, “Sir we’ll need approximately two years.” I said, “How about one week?” We moved up the schedule, and yet very, very safe. We will vanquish the virus and emerge stronger than ever before. Our country will be stronger than ever before.
 And what I did, only because of you and the double state with a double treatment, we spent a lot of money. We now have a new little thing. We have a big board that shows different things. And here’s some of the governors talking about the incredible job we did on COVID or the China virus. Take a look.
 You know, we have a great, great country, but we have a country with tremendous potential, a country that can be greater than ever before. We can’t do this to ourselves. We can’t. And I personally don’t think he’s a nice person, but that’s okay. I don’t think he’s a nice guy. If he was a nice guy, I probably wouldn’t have put those clips up. But those clips are just a few of many, many, many clips. This happened over the last couple of days. You can’t do it.
 For instance, if he were here with you today and said, “I want to thank the people of Ohio for being with us”… He’s done that seven different times. And once you do that, it’s over. You just walk off the stage. You can never make a good speech after that. Nobody’s going to go home and say, “That was a great speech, except for the fact that he called us the wrong state.” Joe Biden his surrendered his party to the rage-filled socialists, Marxists, and left-wing extremists, and that’s what you’re going to have, and you can’t let it happen.
 The Democrats have spent the entire year inciting violence, hatred and hatred against our police, our police. Without our police, we have very little. Last night, the City of Philadelphia was ransacked by violent mobs and Biden-supported people. These were all Biden-supported people, and he wouldn’t even call them out this morning. They said, “Please call them out.” He doesn’t want to get involved because he doesn’t want to lose the radical left. Stores were looted, police cars were burned, and dozens of officers, great officers, were injured. Biden and Harris stand up and they stand with the riders and the vandals. I stand with the heroes of law enforcement.
 It took generations to build the America we know and love. But if the radical left gains power, it will take them only a short period of time to destroy it. This Election Day, you must stop the anti-American, crazy radicals. They are crazy. That’s why I say this is the most important election in the history of our country. I never thought I’d say it, because we had a time four years ago, but they’ve gone absolutely insane.
 Joe Biden is a corrupt politician, but big tech will not allow that to be said and the media will not say it. What he has done is horrible. The money from China, from Ukraine, from Russia. The wife of the Mayor of Moscow gave him three-and-a-half million to son. The son had no job, no nothing, got three-and-a-half million dollars. They put up on the board of Burisma $183,000 a month and, I understand, a $3-million upfront payment. I think they could have had him for less.
 China gave him one and a half billion dollars to manage, even though he’s never managed money before. And I asked people on Wall Street, “Is that common?” They said, “It’s not common. Even for us, they don’t do that.” And that was after a meeting that lasted 10 minutes. Flew in with his father on Air Force Two. Flew back with 1.5 billion to manage from China.
 And then the big one, and I guess this one maybe got caught. And I give a lot of credit for last night. Tucker Carlson did a great job last night, [inaudible 00:11: 33], because he was willing to call it out. By the way, follow up. Sean Hannity did a phenomenal job. You look at Sean Hannity. And Laura did a phenomenal… They’re getting that word out. The great Lou Dobbs, Jesse. You know, we have a lot of good support, but the problem is, we got to have more. Because look at all those people up there. Look at them. Every one of them… You know, they turn their camera off if I even talk about this. Think of it. They turn their camera off. If I mention Biden corruption, they turn their camera off. And yet they’ll do stories about me left and right, stuff that’s so untrue. Nah, it’s unbelievable. Pretty unbelievable.
 It’s been a lot of fun being your president. I got impeached over a telephone call. “Congratulations on your victory,” President of Ukraine. But we had good stick with the Republicans. The Republicans stood by. In Congress, 197 to nothing. How about that? That’s pretty good. Last night in that hour-long interview, the Biden family business partner revealed the depth and extent of Biden corruption. And you know, if you walk out… you’re vice president and your son walks out with hundreds of millions of dollars, and he’s got no real capability, I would say that’s corrupt. I would say it’s corrupt. But Joe got a piece, right? For the big guy, right?
 They said, “We’re going to keep 10% for the big guy.” They call him the big guy. I don’t think so. Joe is personally involved in establishing corrupt business dealings with China. At the same time, he was letting China plunder our jobs and destroy our businesses, our factories, our workers. Another report showed that the executive of a Chinese company that paid the Bidens at least $5 million was under surveillance by the U.S. Government as a likely Chinese spy. This is all down, documented.
 They won’t repeat it. Could you imagine if I did this? No, seriously, could you imagine? I had a conversation, “Congratulations on your victory.” I’d never met the President of the Ukraine. I called him up. One of my great people, thank you very much, said, “Please call him and congratulate him.” I said, “Who is he?” “President of Ukraine.” And I got impeached. Think of it. And we went through hell for six months, our country.
 And they spied on my campaign. Before I won, they spied. And after I won, they spied. And let’s see what happens to him. Let’s all see. And by the way, Obama and Biden knew all about it. Obama and Biden knew all about it. If Biden wins, China wins, because China will own the USA. He’s going to own it. They’re going to own it. President Xi, I know him well. He has not got the same problems that Biden has. He is a very sharp guy, very smart guy, very cunning guy. He’ll own the United States. I’ve charged billions and billions and billions of dollars in tariffs. I gave $28 billion, thank you very much, China, to our farmers because they were targeted.
 When we win, you win. Arizona wins, Nevada wins, and America wins. We’re thrilled to be joined tonight by some really great friends of mine, and they’re warriors and they’re fighting hard. Your governor, Doug Ducey, he got you opened up. He got you opened up. Where is Doug? Where is Doug? You look good, Doug. He got you opened up. You’re open. Thank you very much. And I hear we’re doing well, Doug? We’re doing good? I’m going to be so angry at you, Doug, if I don’t get the… I’ll call Doug, “Doug, how are we doing?” Well, he won by about 17 points. I’d say that’s not so bad. Right? Thank you, Doug. Great job. Great governor.
 Somebody who’s done a fantastic job in the Senate, and she’s respected by everybody there, including me. She could fly those planes very easily that we just saw overhead, Senator Martha McSally. Great, great. So you know, Martha’s opponent wants to get rid of your Second Amendment. I don’t think so. You know, if you talk about nothing else, he wants to get… His whole thing is he wants to get rid of your Second Amendment. They want to take your guns away. You can’t let it happen. Will you please win? You got to win, okay? She’s tremendous. And you could fly those planes, right? She’s the only one in this whole group that can.
 Congressman Paul Gosar. Congressman, great job. Great job by a warrior. He’s a warrior. Thank you. Great job. We’re doing okay, right? I hear we’re doing good. Thank you. Congressional candidate Daniel Rodimer. Daniel Rodimer, he’s a really smart guy, but don’t mess with him. He was a professional wrestler. He’s a big… You’re a big dude, but I hear you doing well. I hear you’re really doing well. That’s good. Well, we’re with your 100%. You know that, right? And Jim Marchant. Jim, congratulations. I hear you’re doing well, too, you and Daniel. He’s doing good, Dan? I think so, right? I hear good? Two winners. Arizona GOP Chair, who I’ve liked right from the beginning, Kelly Ward. Kelly. Now, if we lose, I won’t like her anymore and I’m going to say, “You’re fired Kelly. I’m sorry.” But I hear we’re doing well, Kelly, right? Really well. Yeah.
 You have no idea. When you watch this in the fake news, you watch it and you say, “Oh, man.” But the real numbers are we’re substantially up. And also we’re up in Nevada. We’re worried about the governor, because he’s a political… he headed the political club. That’s some club in Nevada. They send out millions of ballots, you know. They found some in the garbage can with the name Trump on it, military ones. The name Trump was on it. I said, “What’s that happening?” But we got to be careful with the ballots. We do have law enforcement watching in your state. You know that. We have law enforcement, because it’s illegal to do bad things.
 Nevada GOP Chair Michael McDonald. Michael. Michael, it’s good? Going good, right? That’s really good. And we have somebody else who’s been a friend of mine for a long time, respected by everybody, former Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt. Thanks, Adam. You are something. We’re doing okay, right? You’ve got the cheating? You’re watching the cheaters and all those people that send in the phony ballots, the triple… No, you had Virginia. They sent in 500,000 phony…
 You had Virginia. They sent in 500,000 phony applications. They had another one, thousands of ballots were printed. They had one problem. They forgot to put the name President Donald Trump on the ballot. That causes a little problem. History says you don’t win too many of those. No, it’s very, very dishonest what’s happening, but hopefully the courts will protect us. They have to protect us. We had a big win actually yesterday in Wisconsin, you know that, where the United States Supreme court said, “I’m sorry, we have an election. You have to get it in. You have to get it in.” Some of these people, in Nevada, they want to have the election. They want to have the count weeks after November 3rd. So let’s all wait for the Governor to count them up good, and how many is he going to add during that two weeks, right?
 A man who I’ve known for a long time, he’s an incredible guy, he’s a tough guy, he’s respected like you wouldn’t believe, made a lot of money with something that he truly loves, UFC President Dana White. He’s incredible. This guy, what a job he does. If there was ever a case for loving what you do, he sees these fighters, they want to rip you apart, and he goes up and he likes them a lot, right? They’re your friends. Dana’s fantastic, and he has done a fantastic job with some of the highest ratings on television. Dana White, UFC. I’m glad he likes me. And another friend of mine who was treated very, very poorly by big tech, but he’s smarter than all of them, and he figured this out a long time ago. And he’s got a very successful book that just came out. Charlie Kirk. Everybody knows Charlie. Great, Charlie. Thank you, Charlie.
 Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. We built almost 400 miles. I’ll tell you what, the wall, they kept saying, the Democrats, “We don’t need a wall. We need drones.” Drones, all they want wanted, they talked about drones, so that we can watch thousands of people pour into our border. Actually, we’re all set. We have drones. We have such technology within this wall. We got exactly the wall that the Border Patrol wanted. I negotiated with them, but they didn’t want to talk about it. They wanted steel. They wanted concrete inside the steel. They wanted rebar inside the concrete. We got everything. And they wanted wires all over the place to hook up the technology. And the Democrats said, “A wall is obsolete.” I said, “The wall will never be obsolete.”
 And you know the other thing that will never be obsolete, right? Walls and wheels, right? Everything else is obsolete about 15 minutes after it’s developed. Joe Biden has pledged to have open borders. He even said maybe we’ll take down the wall, one of the biggest projects in the history of our country. His plan would completely obliterate so many of the things that you want. He would do things that you would never have, that you would never accept. He will do things that are so far left that we’re not going to talk about them today. He will do things that will destroy our country. This would trigger a tsunami of illegal immigration. They want to have free healthcare for all. Free education for all. Everybody gets a lawyer. That’s just what we want, is a new lawyer. Everybody, everybody gets a lawyer.
 No, we can’t have it. We can’t have what he has. He’s also pledged, and he pledges this strong, but the good news about him, he can pledge and about five hours later, he will have no idea what the hell he pledged. But Washington Democrats continue to attack our wonderful members of I.C.E. and the Border Patrol, more than half of whom are Hispanic Americans, and many of them are here today. And I’m very proud to receive the endorsement from some of the toughest people on earth. In fact, I think they could actually go to Dana and some of them could be nice, good fighters for Dana. National Ice Council, the union representing our incredible I.C.E. officers, and a man who has been a friend of mine for a long time, he’s the Head Council President just got the endorsement, Chris Crane. Where is Chris? Where is Chris? Where is he? You’re looking good dress, Chris.
 Could some of your people maybe fight in the UFC? I don’t know. What do you think, Dana? Could his people from I.C.E.? They like to fight. I think they could. Dana wants to have them. Give them a try out. Thank you for all and thank you for your service, Chris. You do a fantastic job. And the Border Patrol, they do a fantastic job. These guys, Dana, they go into a nest and they start swinging. I don’t want that job. You don’t want it. Nobody up here wants it. They go up. And you know what? We have moved out, Chris, thousands and thousands of hardened criminals, horrible criminals, MS-13. We moved them the hell out of our country because of I.C.E., killers. As president, I have always said I will always stand, Chris, for the heroes of I.C.E. and for Border patrol. So say it to everybody, tell everybody hello. Give them a big hello from me. Incredible people.
 We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. Military, including nearly $1 billion to build the world’s most advanced guided missile. You know where it’s being built? Right here in Arizona. We also passed VA Choice and VA Accountability. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, and we then took out the world’s number one terrorist. Soleimani is dead. He’s dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. I recognize the capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. And instead of having these horrible, ridiculous, endless wars in the Middle East, we’re making peace. You see what’s going on? Everyone’s getting together. There’s no blood in the sand. And I was nominated for three Nobel Peace Prizes. For all different things, believe in or not.
 Kosovo, Serbia. We’re doing trade deal with Kosovo, Serbia. They were killing each other for many, many years, for decades and decades, they’re killing each other. Two countries, they’re killing each other. I said, “So we’re doing a deal with them, a deal with them. What are we doing? I’m not doing any deals unless they get together. They’ve got to get together. What do we want to have people kill each other for?” We made a deal with about 15 minutes, and they were in the Oval Office, hugging and kissing, and saying how much they love each other. And it’s going to last, believe it or not. I really believe that will last. But it was just so natural. Here we are, they want to make trade with us more than we want it with them. They want to make a trade with us. Everybody wants the United States, especially now. So I said, “You know what? We’ll make a deal, but you guys have to stop killing each other. Don’t be crazy. It’s nice. Get along.” And they’re getting along. They’re getting along.
 A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities and a vote for the American dream. A vote for the American dream. And always remember, Abraham Lincoln, the great Abraham Lincoln, was a Republican. We have to bring that up, because most people don’t know that. And I can be more presidential than any President that’s ever, with the exception of perhaps Abraham Lincoln when he’s wearing the hat. You know, that. When he’s wearing the hat, he’s very tough to beat. Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will add our reliance on China once and for all. We’ll make it right here in Arizona. We will expand opportunities zones, reduce your taxes, obliterate your regulations like we’ve done, nobody has ever done what we’ve done to regulations, and provide school choice to every parent in America. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities.
 We will defend religious liberty, free speech, the right to life, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might. Nobody has the equipment that we do. We are the envy of the world militarily. Nobody has done, and when I came the first week I was told by one of the world’s most overrated generals, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” Now we have so much ammunition, we don’t know what the hell to do with it. All made in the U.S.A. all made in the U.S.A. And we will ensure peace through strength. Right? Do you like that?
 Thank you. We will add surprise medical billing, require price transparency, lower drug prices. Look, we took drug prices, last year was the first year in 52 years where prices went down. I’m very proud of that. But it was just a little bit. They didn’t go up, but they went down. First time. But now I’ve invoked Favored Nations. We pay more than any other nation in the world by far. The drug companies hate me. Big Pharma hates me. They are spending so much. And what I did is I made it Favored Nations. We’re the most expensive by far in the world. We now go down to the least expensive, tied, with the least expensive in the world. It’ll have a 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% reduction in drug prices. And I am not liked very much by those drug companies. So when you see those ads, one after another, they make Sleepy Joe look like peanuts compared to the drug companies. Nobody has more money. Nobody’s more powerful in terms of lobby.
 But I had no choice. I had to do it. I have to do what’s right. I don’t care. I mean, I have to do what’s right. We will protect your social security and your Medicare, which Joe Biden, you saw that, Joe Biden tried to obliterate. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. Maybe we’ll make that a woman too. Maybe we should make that a woman too. What do you think, Michael? He said, “Make it Nancy Pelosi.” Who said that? That’s pretty good. I have to admit. Who? Stand up, please. Look at this guy. That’s pretty good. I didn’t say that. I’m just repeating it. They say, “He incites trouble. He loves trouble.” No, I don’t. Thank you very much. That was very good. Are you a comedian professionally? Great.
 We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education, finally. It’s already happening to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. Right? And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, ” In God we trust.” They tried to take the word God out of the Pledge of Allegiance. You saw that. They did it once, they said, “Oh, they made a typo.” Then they did it a second time, they said, “That’s not a typo.” And then they had the wrath of the American public against them and they put it back. But that’s where they’re coming from. For years, you had a President who apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Arizona and Nevada. And Nevada. I’ve got to have those people. They’re great. They’ve been great. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 You have to stop. I’ll start trying. They’ll say, “The President was crying today. The President broke down into tears as they screamed, ‘We love you!'” From Tombstone to Prescott, from Phoenix, it’s lucky I have a good memory, because you can’t see this sucker, it’s lucky I have a memory. Would that be bad? You are so lucky people that I took you on this journey with me. I say that to all my people. I say it to all my people, “The press, absolutely, they’re disgusting.” I said to all my people, “You’re so lucky, Charlie. You’re so lucky. I took you on this journey.” I say to all my people. Where’s Hope? Is she here? Hope? Where the hell is Hope? Does anyone know Hope? Look at Hope. They’re so lucky. Look at that group of people. There’s Jared, he’s making peace in the Middle East. That’s only cares about, is peace in the Middle East. Peace in the Middle East. He’s a brilliant guy.
 I’ll tell you, you don’t get guys like that, but he’s done a great job. And you have, Jared. You have done an incredible job. And he’s done it the exact opposite of what they’ve been doing for 40 years. Great job. Mesa to Yuma and from Phoenix to right here in Bullhead. That sucker is moving so much I see Bullethead. I’m trying to go up. Is my head moving up and down like this? You did a great job of anchoring these things, fellas, a great job. You did a great job. All you have to do is put another two stripes on it, you’ll be fine. But we inherit the legacy of American patriots who poured out their hearts, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom. This great state was settled by some of the toughest men and strongest women ever to walk on Earth.
 Arizona is where Wyatt Earp and Doc Holiday, how about that, became American legends. It’s where the great American West became the American dream, and Arizona is the state where generations of pioneers and prospectors, miners, ranchers, cowboys, and cattle hands, marshals and lawmen tamed the frontier, braved the blazing sun that I’m braving today. I’m just as brave as they are. I’m setting up here. I’ll be like a lobster tomorrow, And showed the entire world how the West was won. They helped make America into the greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are taking it back. Don’t ever let a bad thing happen on Tuesday. Don’t let it happen. We can’t Let it happen. Can’t let it happen. We’re so proud of our country, we can’t let it happen.
 When that goes, when it goes, you look at Venezuela, this would be a massive version of Venezuela, and it can happen, because the ideology is the same. It can happen. Don’t let it happen. We’re returning power to you, the American people, and with your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Arizona, and Nevada, and Nevada, we’ll never forget Nevada, we’re going to have a tremendous win, are we going to win in Nevada, please? We’ve got a lot of people here, a lot of people, a lot of people from Nevada too. We have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much. Go out and vote. Go out and vote. Thank you, everybody.
 Thank you. That’s a lot of people. That’s a lot of people. Look at that. That’s incredible. I hope the fake news media is turning their cameras way, way back there. That’s incredible. Hello, Omaha. And I have to also say, because a lot of people are here from Iowa. Hello, Iowa. Okay. Wait a minute. Who’s from Iowa? Raise, go. Who’s from Omaha?
 You know what? We’re going to be in Iowa soon. We’ll do that one separately. That’s a big difference. Seven days from now, we’re going to win Nebraska, and we’re going to win four more years in the great White House. That’s beautiful, beautiful White House. This is… Look at this. I can’t believe this. 29,000 people can you believe it? 29,000.
 You know, we have to win both Nebraska’s, you know that right? You have two, you’re cut. We’re going to win both. This election is a choice between the Trump super recovery, which is what we’re having, or a Biden depression, sad to say. And some bad news just came out on Biden. But I won’t tell you about that. You’ll find that out tomorrow.
 Look at you. Man, that’s something. Biden has pledged the biggest tax hike in the history of our country. First man, that I’ve ever seen campaign on the fact, “I’m going to raise your taxes.” What’s going on? I gave working families, record-setting tax cuts, and in my second term, I will cut middle class taxes, very substantially more. By the way, a lot of things are going on. You’re seeing those poll numbers, they’re going through the roof. I hate to tell.
 Where is the fake news? It’s over there? Oh, that’s a lot of cameras. No, it’s going up. They’re very concerned. They’re very, very concerned. All over. Florida is looking great. Now, Nebraska we know is looking great. Okay? I mean, in theory, I didn’t really have to be here, but it’s nice to be with your friends. With your vote we will continue to bring back our jobs, support our police, defend our second amendment, which is under siege, secure our borders, maintain American energy independence, expand school choice, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the phrase, that beautiful phrase, beautiful phrase, made in the USA, right?
 I will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, and a safe vaccine that eradicates the virus and quickly ends the pandemic. We’re making that final turn. They don’t want to hear it. We’re making that turn. You know that right? We’re going to have the vaccine anyway with, or without it, we’re making the turn. Normal life will fully resume. That’s all we want. We want normal life, normal life, go back seven months, we’ll take normal life, greatest economy we ever had. We want normal life and next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. That’s where we’re heading. Super V. Joe Biden doesn’t even respect you enough to campaign. He never came here, right? Did he come here? Oh. All right, so that’s the end of that. I’ll see you guys, I don’t have… Moments ago, we learned about the other reason Joe Biden has been hiding in his basement, in a national television interview… Do you want me to tell you the rest? The Biden family’s business partner revealed shocking, disturbing, and explosive information about Joe Biden’s corrupt and illicit foreign business dealings while he was Vice President.
 The business partner made clear that Biden’s denial of involvement in his son’s corrupt business dealings was a blatant lie with proof. He stated with firsthand knowledge, that Vice President Biden was directly and personally involved in establishing corrupt business dealings with China and getting money for it. This all happened at the same time as Biden was letting China steal American jobs and plunder American wealth. You saw that for eight years. If Biden wins, China wins, and China will own the USA. If Biden wins he will do bad things. By the way, he’s not a good guy. Just so you understand.
 Is there any place you would rather be than a Trump rally on about a 10 degree evening? 10 degrees. Yeah, it’s cold out here, but that’s okay. You know, we just left Wisconsin? It was cold. And we left Michigan, it was cold and raining. And I said, “I won’t put on a hat because I’m going to show you how tough we are.” That was a tough one. It was pouring. It was pouring and it was freezing. And it’s the coldest right here. Right? It’s a little later. It’s an honor to be with you I have to say. When we win, you win, Nebraska wins, and all of America wins, and that’s the way we want it.
 Joe Biden has spent the last 47 years, think of it, 47. 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign, ridiculous wars. Countries you’ve never even heard of. In 2016, Nebraska voted to fire this corrupt political establishment, and you elected an outsider as president who finally put America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician it’s because I’m not a politician.
 If I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I fought harder for you than any president who’s ever held this wonderful, beautiful office. That I can tell you. This election is a matter of economic survival for Omaha and for communities all across our country. Joe Biden’s agenda, and I’m not sure it’s only Biden’s agenda, let’s face it. It’s not his agenda. It sounds nice, Biden’s agenda. The guys shot. He’s shot. He’s so gonzo. You saw him yesterday, they took him away.
 I was in Pennsylvania with these tremendous, crowds like this, tremendous rallies; and he had the lid on, right? You know, the lid, like from a garbage can, they call it the lid. They saw what was happening, because I went to three of them. I did three of them yesterday in Pennsylvania. So he went from Delaware to the closest point where Pennsylvania hits Delaware, which was about five minutes away from his basement. He made a speech, just before that he called me George. He said, “George,” I think he was talking about Georgia. His wife was sitting next to him and you could see she was not happy.
 But it’s hard to correct him, the camera’s on, but he called me George. Then he did the little speech and it wasn’t good. They sort of just moved him out. They took him away, his own people, brush him off. They took them off stage. This is not what you can have. We have the greatest country in the world. We have more potential than any country in the world. We can’t play games. We can’t play games.
 So the Democrats, let’s say the Democrats, the radical left Democrats, they have an extreme agenda. He’s just a vehicle. He’ll be there for about four weeks or so. Then you’ll have Kamala, Kamala. That will not be the first woman president. You’re going to have a woman president, maybe soon, maybe soon, but you’re not going to have a Kamala. Can’t be Kamala. She’s further left by far then crazy Bernie. Bernie is like a conservative compared to her, but Biden’s extreme agenda includes a radical vision to destroy suburbs across our nation. How are your suburbs doing? Don’t ask. Are they good? They won’t be good for longer, if they get it. And to completely dismantle law enforcement and cripple police departments nationwide, you know what’s going on. You see it better than anybody. You don’t have to take my word for it. Biden’s plan to destroy suburbs and police just take a look, roll the tape. We do this view on this freezing cold night.
 The prior administration piled up more than 600 major new regulations, a cruel and punishing regulatory burden that cost the average American an additional $2,300 per year. Think of that. The average American, $2,300, regulation, hitting low-income Americans by far the hardest. Our historic regulatory relief is providing the average American household an extra $3,100 every single year.
 I will cut taxes even further for hard working moms and dads. I will not raise taxes. I will cut them.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, that’s pretty effective. You know what that costs to bring to you tonight?
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much. Pretty effective, right? You see it. It saves me a lot of words. I can sit here, watch. I say, “See?” No, he’s not the right guy. He’s not the right guy. He’s not right for this country. He’s not the guy for this country. This election is a choice between the American dream, which is what we want and a socialist nightmare, which is where you would head if you ever did that, which I don’t believe you’ll do. It’s a choice between a Trump boom and a Biden lockdown. He wants to lock it all down. No. We closed it up. We understand the disease. It’s a terrible thing. Should never have been allowed to come here from China. Should never have been allowed.
 Joe Biden will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, prolong the pandemic, shutter your schools, right? Shutter your schools, destroy your small businesses and shut down our country. We’re not doing that. Look, we are setting records, 11.4 million people. It’s all opened up. We understand it. And we are doing a job. We are literally setting records on employment. Look at housing, look at automobile production. Look at how you’re doing in Nebraska. Look at how you’re doing in Nebraska.
 Biden even wants to lock down young and healthy Americans yet for those under the age of 50, I hate to say this, under the age of 50. How many are under the age of 50? Pretty young. Well, I have good news for you. 99.99, okay, you know what that means? That means you’re in good shape. That’s what that means. But you notice the fake news now, right? All they talk about is COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID and we’ve made such progress. It’s incredible. Excuse me. I’m here. Right? I’m here. Right?
 I mean, I wasn’t exactly feeling great. It’s been a long time. I wasn’t exactly feeling great. Man, I met with great doctors. One thing when you’re president, you got plenty of doctors. We have one of them here tonight, I think. Right? We have our great White House doctors traveling. Sean, he’s become very famous. Where is Sean? He’s become … Oh, is that Sean. Look at Sean. Look at him. Wow. You know, he’s got a big ego. He loves it when I mention his name. No, he’s a great doctor. They were great doctors from Johns Hopkins and from Walter Reed and everything else. And what we know today is like so different than what we knew six months ago. Incredible.
 The progress they’ve made and with the vaccines, which are coming immediately, even without, we’re turning that corner. You know, at some point we’re turning that corner and it’s been pretty amazing. Florida had a rough time. Boom, it stepped back. It’s all the way down. Texas, all the way down. Arizona, great governors, all the way down. Biden’s cruel and senseless lock downs would cause countless deaths from suicide, drug overdose and delayed medical care, alcohol. I’ve been so many, so many different problems. Remember, I’d say the cure can not be worse than the problem itself. That’s what you have.
 When I banned traveled from China, remember he said now. He says, “Oh, we should have done it sooner.” Except when I banned it. For two and a half months, he said he shouldn’t do that. He’s xenophobic. Right? And now he says, “Oh, I should’ve done it earlier.” And he had a thing called the swine flu. It was a disaster, much less lethal. It was a disaster. He was a disaster. He’s still a disaster actually.
 If we listen to Joe, countless more people would have died. They were anticipating it could be 2.2 million. You don’t hear that, 2.2 million. And you know the number. It’s still one is too many as far as I’m concerned. One is too many. It shouldn’t have happened. One is too many, but it could have been 2.2. It could have been more than that. Biden was willing to sacrifice your lives on the altar of open borders. He wants open borders. Without borders, you don’t have a country. By the way, the wall is now over 400 miles long and we’re building 10 miles a week and it’s very soon going to be finished. So we have the strongest southern border we’ve ever had. And we want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through Marin. Marin.
 Biden has no plan, no idea, no clue. He has no clue. That’s for sure. And he just wants to lock up and throw away the keys, letting rioters and looters run wild. And you know, it’s interesting. They call them peaceful protestors. They burn down your cities. They do things that nobody’s seen before all in radical left Democrat run cities and states, but cities, all of them, all of them. And every time we go in, we were going to go into Seattle. We let them know we’re coming in. The night before we came in, they gave up, they left. They took over a piece of Seattle. That wasn’t going to last.
 Minneapolis, the same thing. We went into Minneapolis. We went in, you know, we have to be asked in theory, by the state. We went into Minneapolis and it all ended. It took about, what do you think? 25 minutes or so. It was just boom, right down the street. Now, the Republican run cities are doing very well. The Republican run cities. And I hope you agree because I know he’s here, but you have a very good Republican governor. You do know that, yeah? Whoa. Listen to that. Good. Good. Hi, Pete. Good. You know, I’m glad they did that. You know, I want to do the … Otherwise, I just wouldn’t introduce you later. You know, keep it quiet. They like you, Pete.
 The Biden plan will crush you and crush your family. My plan will crush the virus and you will see economic benefits like we’ve never seen in our country before. That’s what we’re having. When the China plague arrived, we moved heaven and earth to fight the disease. We airlifted medical supplies, pioneered groundbreaking therapies, reduced the fatality rate 85%. Think of that and saved over two million lives. Our excess mortality rate has been 42% less than Europe. You hear about Europe, 42% less, much better than Europe.
 I’m working to make the breakthrough treatment that I received. I did. I had this thing called Regeneron. I don’t know. I’d like to say it had nothing to do. I’d like to say my immune system is just like Baron Trump. You know, first lady had it. I had it. Baron had it. They said, “Sir, Baron has tested positive.” Like 12 minutes later, I said, “How’s Baron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay now, sir. He threw it away.” He just took that, threw it away, you know? They’re young and they have strong immune systems, but I’d like to say the treatment didn’t do anything for me. Doctor, do you hear that? I just threw it away like Baron.
 But you know what? I wasn’t going to take my chance. I said, “You have something, give it to me.” And it was effective because I woke up the next morning after being with these doctors, they wanted to touch every single part of your body and I didn’t like it. Twelve of them. Each one was a specialist, right? Every single one, but they were great. No, they were great. But I woke up the next morning and I tell you, I felt like, “Get me out of here. It was amazing.” So, I really think this thing was great. It’s great. I think it was great.
 And you know, I don’t have the luxury of staying in a basement. I’m president of the United States. I don’t. I can’t be staying. I really can’t. You can’t stay. I had a lot of meetings. I meet a lot of people. As president, I have that obligation. So we have basements in the White House I could stay. We have beautiful bedrooms upstairs at the White House I could stay for a year and a half. I can’t do that. I have to be working for you. And if something happens, it happens. And I get, you know, they came in, they said, “Sir, you’ve tested positive.” I said, “Tested positive for what?” Then you go into one of the 27 different names, corona, this, this, this, China virus, the China plague, the China plague. That’s what I tested positive for. But it was amazing. And it was actually an experience.
 And until I came along, you were supposed to have lifetime immunity. Right? I said, “Well, I’m recovered. I feel great. And I’m immune.” I could jump right into this road. I could kiss every man and woman, every man and woman. But because it was me, the press said, “No, it’s not for a lifetime. It’s only for four months. Immunity is only now for four months.” They brought it down, right? It was always going to be for a lifetime, now it’s four months. So what are you going to do? What are you going to do? It’s one of those things, but I guarantee you this. On November 4th, you won’t be hearing as much about this. It’s going to be … right now, it’s, COVID, COVID, COVID no matter what happens. COVID, COVID.
 And on November 4th, you’ll probably try and find some information about it. No, we’re rounding the turn. We’re rounding that beautiful turn and it’s going to be very good. The vaccines all going to make it go away a lot faster and they’re going to be great. The greatest companies, the greatest companies of their kind in the world, they’re doing it. Really good. Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, they really are great. Pfizer.
 Thanks to our relentless efforts, 97% of all current emergency room visits are for something other than the virus. Think of that, 97%. We’re in great shape. And in the one areas, the Midwest, a little areas in the Midwest, certain areas that are heated up right now, they’ll go down. They’ll go down very quickly. There’ll be down within two weeks they’re figuring. They’ll go down just like they did in Florida, Texas, Arizona and so many others. We’re on track to deliver 100 million doses of a safe vaccine and a great vaccine. And that’s all set. We’re all set logistically. Our military is going to deliver it. It’ll be done very quickly. We will vanquish the vaccine and we will get rid of this whole thing. We will get rid of this virus. It’ll be very, you watch, it’s going to happen very quickly and we’re going to have our country back. And the whole world-
 … and we’re going to have our country back and the whole world is going to be coming back. This was a terrible, terrible thing that happened, terrible thing that happened. Terrible thing that happened. Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain, in exchange for his party’s nomination he has handed control of his party over to the rage filled socialist, Marxists, and left wing extremists. And could we put another name in there? Starts with a C, communist, yes. No, we got a couple of them too, unfortunately. If Biden wins, the flag burning extremists on the streets will be running your government, it’s not going to happen.
 By the way, just so you know, we are so far… You listen to the fakers back there, look at them. You listen to the fake news, we are so far ahead, this is going to be bigger than four years ago. By the way, get out and vote, that the only thing I’m standing here freezing, I ask you one little favor, get that hell out and vote. The great red wave. At least you’re down there with each other, I’m all up here and that wind is blowing.
 This election day you must stop the anti-American radicals and, really, I mean, that’s what they are, they’re radicals. We can solve these problems so quickly if the governments would just say, “Would you please come in federal government?” We’d stop it in a matter of minutes, it goes so fast. The radical’s delivering Joe Biden, you have to do this, you have to deliver them a message, the far left, a thundering defeat at the ballot box on November 3rd. It’s got to be a big one, we’ve got to win big. And we’re going to win big, I watching them and they’re getting… Like three weeks ago, I don’t know, they were doing these fake polls and they felt very good. And then a week ago they were feeling okay, they’re not feeling so good right now. They’re saying, “These are not good numbers.”
 Was that one of the greatest evenings ever four years ago? And you know, the difference is, and I say this is easier, there’s more… Look at this crowd, I mean, we had big crowds, we didn’t have crowds like this. Look at this crowd 29,000. You have 29, 000 people in Omaha, that’s pretty good. And you’re all on television. Say, “Hello.” You’re on national television. See all the red lights? That means the cameras are going, that means those cameras are going. 29,000 people, they say, 29,000. Yeah.
 You know who spoke today? President Barack Hussein Obama. He had 12 people in seven cars, did you hear the… No, he draws flies. I’ve never seen… He draws… He had no people, I thought he’d have some people. And he bought Bon Jovi along, you know what happened to Bon Jovi? They increased the crowd by 22 people, can you believe that? And then Joe spoke and that crowd left and we have 29,000 people here and we had a tremendous crowd in Michigan, had a tremendous crowd in Wisconsin. And they’re trying to figure out like, if Trump is getting these crowds and if Biden’s getting like 12 people, you know the circles, he fills in the circles, they got like five of them. And a lot of times they put reporters in there cause they have no people.
 But today he tried to blame that on COVID also. He said, “No, no, we don’t seek large crowds,” because of the virus, right? They don’t want the large crowd. That’s not the reason, okay? That’s not the reason. It’s a hell of an excuse, but it’s not the reason.
 We’re thrilled to be joined by the man we were just talking about, he’s a friend of mine, he loves his state, he loves his country and he’s a great governor, Pete Ricketts. Pete, Great job. Great job. What a good guy. What a good man. How’s your state doing, Pete?
 All right, good. How are we doing? By the way, we’re going to be okay here, right?
 He says, “Good.” Good, thank you very much, Pete. And his brother Todd, another one really good. Now there’s only two people that are better, Joe and Marlene. Now Todd is great, but they will both admit Joe and Marlene are better, right? And you’re here. Hi Joe. I like the hat, Hi Joe. You got to be proud of your boys, they’re doing a great job, thank you very much. Thank you very much, great family.
 Here as well are Senators, Deb Fischer, who’s fantastic. She is my favorite Senator from the State of Nebraska, by far, by far. She’s fantastic. She is. I’ll tell you what she calls me, it doesn’t stop. Between her and Joni Ernst from Iowa, who I think is here, where’s Joni? Joni. Joni. They call, “Sir, we need help with ethanol. Sir, we need help with corn. We need…” It’s always… But you know what? That’s what a great Senator, that’s what a great Representative is supposed to do, right? Joni, thank you very much. And I heard you doing very well, I just saw some very nice numbers. And Deb, you don’t have to worry about numbers, right? You don’t have to worry about numbers. I’m with you all the time. Thank you both. And yeah, it looks very good in Iowa. Thank you very much. Good.
 Add Representatives, Jeff Fortenberry, a warrior, where’s Jeff? Thank you, Jeff. Great guy. Don Bacon. Whoa, what’s this? Wow. Wow. Well, I like him too, but I don’t know if I like him that much. That’s very good. I’ll tell you, you better get me on Omaha, you understand that? Now I know, I wouldn’t have asked him, but now I’m going to say, “Make sure we win this side too,” right? Good. How are we doing Don, I hear good. Good, huh?
 Good. I’m very impressed, that’s about as good as I’ve heard in a long time. And Adrian Smith. Adrian, great job. Great job. Great to have you here. It’s a great group of people and these are warriors, they fought with me a lot. They fought with me, we keep winning over there, but it’s not easy, right? But it gets easier and easier all the time. Thank you very much, I appreciate it.
 For decades, our politicians spent trillions and trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign Wars, and defending foreign borders, but now we are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA. Our troops are coming home. Thank you. No, our troops are coming back home, that’s enough. 19 years in Afghanistan and we have it worked in they’re coming home and it’s a great thing. And they’re home from Syria, they’re home, I left some because we kept the oil, if you don’t mind, there was some oil and we captured it, we kept it. And coming home from Iraq. It’s enough, it’s enough, we want to have them all home. We have a lot of other countries too, we were in many, many, many countries, most of which you’ve never even heard of, right? You never even heard of, it’s ridiculous. And, by the way, making our military stronger by far than ever before. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and proudly signed the brand new USMCA, which is turning out to be phenomenal, it’s a great deal. It’s a great deal, just kicked in now. And you know what? Companies will not be leaving Nebraska and Iowa and all of our places, there is a very big disincentive for them to do that.
 When China targeted our farmers, I delivered $28 billion to our incredible farmers here in Nebraska, and Iowa, and all across the country. Don’t forget to tell the people of Iowa that, please. $28 billion, I said to the Secretary, Sonny Perdue, of Agriculture. Sonny is great. I said, “Sonny, how much were the farmers targeted?” And he said, “$12 billion, sir and $16 billion,” two years, 12 and 16. I said, “28, good.” So I tariffed $28 billion, took it from China and distributed it to our farmers, nobody else is going to do that.
 In fact, some people say our farmers do better now than they did when they actually had to farm. But we did, we had the biggest order of corn two weeks ago in the history of our country, the biggest order of soybeans, and the biggest beef order, right? Two weeks ago. Joe Biden’s running mate, the most liberal member of the US Senate, you know who that is, sponsors the insane Green New Deal, $100 trillion, you too can have no windows in your buildings. Which would wipe out the ethanol industry, Joni, it would totally wipe out that industry. We worked hard on that industry and then now in good shape. Devastating Nebraska and devastating Iowa, as president I will always defend ethanol, okay? All right? Does Nebraska like ethanol too, by the way? Okay good, I need that little assurance. I need that little bit of assurance.
 Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in us history, our Southern border, largely because of the wall. My opponent’s insane immigration plan would completely eliminate US borders. Open borders they want to have, let’s have open borders so everyone can just pour it like they used to. He would make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. So we invested $2.5 trillion, a lot of it right here from this state and from Joni, from Iowa, $2.5 trillion, new equipment, our military is in the best shape it’s ever been in, we have the greatest equipment anywhere in the world. We are the envy of every other country: Russia, China, North Korea. We have the best missiles, and rockets, and tanks, and planes, and fighter jets, F-35s, submarines, and our nuclear weapons are now renovated and/or new and fixed, and we only hope to God we never have to use them. Hope to God.
 Our military was very much in bad shape. It was depleted. It was depleted. It was exhausted, it was ridiculous. We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, they were looking for him for a long time. And we took out the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous and ridiculous Iran Nuclear Deal, $150 billion we paid, for nothing. And $1.8 billion in cash, I’m more impressed with that. What do you think, pop? I think I’m more impressed, $ 150 billion or $1.8 billion in cash, I think I’m more impressed with the cash. You ever hear everything like that? That’s what we gave to Iran for nothing, we got nothing.
 I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, think on that. They kept that they worked on that for 52 years, I got it done in two hours. And instead of never ending Wars in the Middle East, you see what’s happening, already three countries, we have five lined up and we’re going to have another, it’s going to be… it’s an easy one, it’s a lot easier than you would think. They worked on this for 35 years, they had the wrong people, they had the wrong concepts.
 But I got nominated for three Nobel Peace Prizes, can you believe it? Can you believe it? And for all different regions, like Kosovo and Serbia were doing deals, trade deals, just normally we’re doing trade deals, I said, “Wait a minute, aren’t they always fighting each other?”
 “Yeah.”
 “Aren’t they always killing each other?”
 “Yeah, for many decades, sir, how did you know?” I said, “I know, they’re killing… They fight each other all the time. Tell him we’re not going to do any business with them. They want our business, right? And we’re not going to do any business unless we make a deal where they stop killing each other.” And you know what? It took about 20 minutes. They’ve been fighting for 40 years, I think they’d been fighting for 400 years, you want to know the truth, but-
 I think they’ve been fighting for 400 years, you want to know the truth, but they’ve been fighting for a long time. They want to make a deal. All of a sudden, two months ago, they’re in the Oval Office hugging and kissing and [inaudible 00:00:14]. That was easy, Joe. Right? That was easy. It just makes sense. I just said, “Hey, why don’t we get them together? I mean, we’re going to do these two deals. Tell them to stop fighting, and we save a lot of lives. That’s a good thing.” But we’re forging peace in the Middle East without blood all over the sand, and we’re not spending money. You’re doing it either… Something very nice is we’re pulling out.
 A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American dream. It’s a vote for acknowledgement that Abraham Lincoln was a Republican. Is that nice? People don’t know that. A lot of people don’t know that. So in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China. And that’s already begun, largely already begun. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend religious liberty, free speech, the right to life, and the right to keep and bear arms.
 We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. And that’s what we have now, with what we have. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. That’s bigger than healthcare. You watch. Already signed, kicks in on January 1st. Lower drug prices even more. We signed favored nations. That means we’re going to get the lowest price anywhere in the world. Right now, we’re by far the highest. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. And NASA is the number one space center anywhere in the world again. It was a mess three and a half years ago. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students, and restore patriotic education to our school.
 We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, “In God We Trust.” For years, you had a president who apologized to America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and standing up for the great people of Nebraska and Iowa. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, and get your coworkers. Get your boss and say, “Boss, get out of here, boss. Get out and vote. You got to vote.” The red wave is coming. The great red wave. Now we’re doing very well. Those early ballots…
 You know the whole ballot hoax. You see what’s going on. There’s so many bad things happening, but we’re doing very well. You know, we’re supposed to be a little behind, and they were a little bit above. But that wave comes, and now we go to the front of everything. I think we’re going to win everything. We didn’t come this far and fight this hard to surrender our country back to the corrupt Washington swamp. So on November 3rd, we must finish the job that we started. We have done a job like nobody. There has been no administration, nobody, and it’s us all together. There has been… No administration has done in the first three and a half years what this administration has done. Not even close. Not even close. Not even close.
 From Norfolk to Hastings, from Grand Island to Lincoln, and from Scottsbluff to right here in Omaha, we inherit the legacy of Nebraska patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together, we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We’re going to keep on fighting, and we’re going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Nebraska and Iowa, we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you Nebraska. Thank you Iowa. Thank you both. Thank you. Get out and vote.
 Wow. That’s so great. I want to start off by saying a very big hello, Wisconsin. It’s great to be with you. And I’ll also say this. I have never spoken where I had so many people behind me. I have a whole stadium behind. I want to just thank everybody. This is a great turnout. They wanted a bigger space. They got a bigger space. Because seven days from now, we are going to win this state and we are going to four more incredible years in the White House. Thank you. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery or a Biden depression. That’s what you’re going to have with the raise of taxes, the biggest tax increase in our history. It’s ridiculous. It’s a choice between a Trump boom or a Biden lockdown. Let’s lock it all down. And by the way, speaking of lockdowns, let’s get your governor to open it up. Let’s get him to open it up.
 It’s a choice between our plan to cut your taxes or even, and I have to tell you, we’ve given you the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. You know that, biggest regulation cut in the history of our country. And sleepy Joe Biden, his plan is to raise your taxes at a level that our country has never raised taxes before. Somehow that doesn’t work too well. Do you agree? I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I’ve never heard of it before, but that’s okay. You can’t hear of everything, right? All my life I’ve watched people want to cut taxes. Here’s a guy, he’s running on a basis of let’s raise everybody’s taxes.
 Next week, Wisconsin is going to answer the call of history once again. We had a great victory here. Didn’t we have a great? Remember that four years ago? They said, “Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin.” It’s been a long time since a Republican did that, but we’re actually much higher now than we were then. We have a campaign that’s actually more enthusiastic. And that was, I would say, that had to be number one in history four years ago. But you know what? This is going to be the most important election in the history of our country. Because you see what’s happening, the radical lefts, and you’re going to defeat Biden and dark money donors and corrupt special interests. One of the most important issues in this election is law and order. We say it. Law and order.
 Joe Biden is party incite violence and hatred against our police officers. And we’re not doing that. No, we’re not doing that. Remember the debate, the first debate. Which one did you like better, the first one or the second one? He says, “Both.” That’s a fan. He said, “My man is there.” Yeah. Did anybody see the last one? Anybody watching? Seems to have had a very big impact. We learned a lot about him. Number one, he’s against oil, gas, probably likes wind, but wind is very intermittent. Let’s watch the President tonight on television. I’m sorry, darling, the wind’s not blowing.
 Last night, Philadelphia was torn up by Biden supporting radicals. 30 police officers, Philadelphia police officers, great people, they were injured, some badly. Biden stands with the riders and I stand with the heroes of law enforcement. And you know what? They can do their job very easily. Just let them do their job. The Biden Harris plan would end cash bail. You know, they want to have cash bail so everyone just walks around. No matter what they do, ends cash bail, free 400,000 dangerous criminals. It would slash police budgets all over the country. It would tie the hands of every police officer in the country and they would appoint anti-police prosecutors in every community in America. I don’t think that’s for Wisconsin. We know each other well.
 Biden is soft and weak and too scared to be President. He doesn’t want to be President. Let’s face it. You know, you got his bad body language there. This man knows body language better than any man I know. That’s a lot of bad body language from Joe. You know, he got out yesterday. You saw that? Because we’re making speeches all over Pennsylvania. He got out and he got out of Delaware and he said, “What’s the closest point to Pennsylvania?” And it was just a few minutes from his basement. And he went and made a speech. And that was a mistake because they had to take him off the stage because he didn’t know where the hell he was. Right? That didn’t work out too well. No, because he had a lid, you know, like a garbage can. You put it in the can. It’s a lid. It’s called a lid. But he doesn’t want to be President. One thing about this job, you got to want it. You got to want it. This is tough. This is tough. And doing this, I don’t usually say it, but I say it, doing this…
 And unlike Biden, who’s made a fortune in politics, what a fortune. The press is not allowed to write about that though. But Biden made a fortune. You know what? This is costing me billions of dollars. And you know, I could not be happier because we have done things that nobody else could have done in the first three and a half years. There’s been no administration that’s done what we’ve done in the first three and a half years with our military, with our vets, with regulations, with cutting taxes. Biden’s running mate, the most liberal member in the U.S. Senate. She makes Bernie Sanders look like he’s a conservative. Even urge their supporters to donate to a fund to bail out writers in Minneapolis, where they had such problems until the National Guard went in and they stopped it. Would you say that was about, what, 22 minutes? It was all over.
 Including an attempted cop killer, they wanted to bail him out. The policies will set cop killers free. We believe if you murder a police officer, you should get the death penalty. And I know you’re a state that believes. You murder a police officer. You saw a month ago. The two young officers sitting in a car and the guy comes up. No, you do that stuff and you can’t get away with it. When the violent mob came to Kenosha, you know, Kenosha? Everybody know Kenosha? Biden opposed sending in the National Guard. We sent in the National Guard and we saved Kenosha. We save Kenosha. Kenosha wouldn’t be standing. And I got a lot of credit. Thank you to the sheriff and so many others for their support. They’ve actually came out and supported me. Thank you very much. Where’s the sheriff? Is he around here some place? What a hell of a sheriff. Thank you very much. That’s great. I appreciate it, too. That’s the first time you ever did it. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. Fantastic. Good man. Good man.
 It took generations to build the America that we know and love. But if the radical left gain power, it would take them only a matter of months to burn it down, tear it down or destroy it. I’m the only one standing between you and the left wing mob. I hate to tell you. There aren’t too many of us, but we’re standing, and your second amendment and many other things, right?
 Biden has not only declared war on police. I mean, you know, it really is. My father taught me a long time. Don’t use the word cops because the word cops, that’s a little slang. Always call them police. So I never used it. You know, I see cops, but sometimes it’s not bad. Sheriff, let me ask you. Cops or police or doesn’t it matter? If it’s done with the heart, who cares, right? Right? If it’s done with a heart. So like I said, he declared war on the cops, and it’s not working out too well.
 You’re going to see something. You’re going to see a giant red wave on Tuesday. You’re going to see a red wave like they’ve never seen before. And they saw a very big one. I’ll tell you what, they got a glimpse on four years ago. And remember they said, “Where did these people come from? Where did they come from?” They’re great Americans. They don’t want anything. They just want that level playing field. And they came out and they voted. And this is going to be bigger. This is going to be bigger. And they know it. They know it. They know it. They don’t like to report it. They see what’s happening. They see what’s happening, Mike. Don’t they? They get it. It’s going to be very big and it’s going to be beautiful.
 And it doesn’t have to start on Tuesday. It could start earlier, early voting. You want to be there. You know these ballots. You see? Was I right about the ballots? It’s messed up like you wouldn’t believe. Now they say, “We’d like to get the ballots and maybe get them within a few days of the election. And we’ll take 10 days to count them up.” Oh good. Let’s let the whole world wait while you count your ballots. And you know what happens while they’re counting them? They’re dumping more ballots in there. Okay? Where did they come from? No. We had a great ruling right here. We had a great ruling. Right? Got that yesterday. Supreme Court said, “Nope, that’s your date. That’s the [inaudible 00:00:12:14]. November 3rd. That’s your date.” Right?
 But sleepy Joe declared war on American workers and Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs. You got hit hard. Opening your borders, you don’t have borders, you don’t have a country. And sacrificing American blood and treasure and endless foreign, ridiculous Wars. Countries, most of you, including even most of the people, they never even heard of these countries. We’re bringing them all back home. You know that, right? They’re all coming back home. Afghanistan, Iraq, keeping some in Syria. If you don’t mind, we’re keeping the oil. You know, they should have done that with Iraq. Remember I said, “Don’t go into Iraq. But if you go in, at least keep the oil.” We didn’t keep the oil.
 Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA, China’s entry into the world trade organization. He repeatedly tried to slash Medicare and social security. He’s a shill in a sense for foreign countries. You got to take a look at this guy’s record. Of course, right now he has no idea where he is, so that’s an entirely different problem. That’s a very big, different problem. Look, we have to say it like it is. Hey, we have the greatest country in the world and we have potential like no country has, and we can’t play games. We can’t play games. We can’t. And besides that, he’s not a nice guy. Okay? Just so you know, he was never a nice guy. So I feel better. If he was a nice guy, I wouldn’t say it.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Decade after decade, Biden twisted his knife into the back of Wisconsin workers, but workers throughout the United States, you don’t have to take my word for it, for a special group of people, the people of Wisconsin. I spent a lot of money on this crazy video. Look at this. And you’re going to see it. I hope that people back here can see it. Can you see it too? I hope. Oh, that’s terrible. All right. You’ll take my word for it. Go ahead. Play.
 You said it on tape.
 I’ll put it on.
 Would he close down the oil industry? Would you close down the oil industry?
 Oh, that’s a big statement. That is a big statement in terms of business, that’s the biggest statement because basically what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas? We remember that Pennsylvania, Oklahoma.
 That was yesterday. That was all yesterday. So that took place yesterday. Every day we could put up another treat. The whole thing is ridiculous. The whole thing. Until the plague came in from China, I didn’t even have a race. And then it came in and we did a great job. We saved millions of lives. two million lives, 2.2 million it was supposed to be. And this guy, “Oh, don’t ban it.” He’s xenophobic, right? Don’t ban China. Don’t China. And this is in January or very early on, very, very early. Everybody said don’t ban. I’m not blaming anybody, but they all said don’t ban.
 I said it’s a heavily infected country. It’s starting from there. I banned China. Then I banned Europe with all of the problems they were having with Spain and Italy and France and everybody. And I banned Europe and two and a half months later, he was saying, don’t ban and then he runs for president. He lucks out because Pocahontas decided to stay in. So she took a lot of votes away from Bernie. Not too many. She didn’t do too well, but she took enough away that he ends up winning on Super Tuesday. Right?
 And all of a sudden I got this guy running and he starts complaining that I should have moved faster, but he was two and a half months behind. And I said that’s going to be hard to explain, but I have to explain it to people. One thing nice is when you put this thing up here, saves you a lot of words, right? It saves you a lot of words. And then the other thing, remember for a year, “We will not frack.” Now it affects you because of your energy costs and all of the things that affects everybody.
 We’re right now energy independence. It’s a great thing. First time. Can you imagine Texas, Pennsylvania, the different places, Ohio, so many places, so many places, North Dakota? Can you imagine? Take Texas. I mean, he’s against oil, he’s against guns and he’s against religion. Right? Other than that, he’s wonderful. He’s just perfect. And then they say, “It’s a very close race in Texas.” I don’t think so. You’re against oil, guns and God. You don’t have a close race in Texas. I don’t think so.
 But they said the same thing years ago that, “Texas is too close to call. It’s going to be a very, very tough race for Donald Trump.” Then it was Donald, right? Now they call me president out of respect I’m sure for the office. “It will be a very, very, very tough race. I mean, the polls have closed in Texas. Donald Trump has won the state of Texas.” It was like all in one thing. They don’t do that unless you have a landslide. Now they do the same thing again. Well, this time, at least they say I have a little lead. How can you have a little lead when I’m the oil person Louie needed to fire up your factories?
 They don’t even know how to do it. They have AOC plus three. They say, “Okay, we’ll get rid of all fossil fuels.” We have a problem in Wisconsin. We’re doing very well. We have a lot of factories. We have a lot of plants. How are we going to fire them up? She has no clue. She has no clue. I don’t even think she studied it. Maybe in high school she studied it, but probably not in college. Did she go to college? Tell me. Did she? Because I don’t know. I don’t know her background, but it is not heavy into the environment.
 All of a sudden she comes up with the Green New Deal and these people all did because they have to because the radical left wants them. The Green New Deal will cost $100 trillion. If we have a hundred perfect years, the greatest years of the history of our country, we can’t make it with a 100 trillion spent on the Green New Deal. In 2016, Wisconsin voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider’s president who is finally putting America first. And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. It’s one of the reasons I was elected if I was a politician I probably wouldn’t have been elected, right?
 If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you. And I’m fighting for you harder than any president has ever fought for you. Together, we’ll continue to fight for American workers, support our police, defend our second amendment, which is under siege, but don’t worry about it. Don’t worry about it. It’s fine. But it is under siege. Secure our borders. And you know the wall is up to over 400 miles right now. We have a very secure border. Over four. We’re going to have it finished very soon.
 They don’t talk about it anymore. You know they used to go, “He will never get it built.” Because that was like you couldn’t. The Democrat party was so against it, they said it was obsolete. Used drones so we can watch everybody pour into the border. Right? Let’s send a drone up there, right? Walls and wheels, right? Walls and wheels never get obsolete. That’s about the only two things I know of that don’t get obsolete. Everything else is obsolete about 15 minutes after you figure it out.
 And ensure more products are proudly stamped with that wonderful, beautiful phrase made in the USA, right? We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth at a safe vaccine that eradicates the virus and quickly ends this pandemic. And you know with the fake news, everything is COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID. I had it. Here I am, right? Now. I had it. The First Lady had it Barron had it, but Barron had it for about 12 seconds. Young, young immune system, young.
 No, it’s COVID. You turn on the news, COVID, COVID. You know when they’re going to stop talking about it so much? November 4th year. You’re right. November 4th. I know. It’s a whole crazy thing. I mean, it’s too complicated to explain. These people are very corrupt, very dishonest, but they’ve got a lot of problems. On November 4th, you’ll hear we’re doing extremely well and you’ll see. You’ll see. They used to always say that Europe, look at Europe, look at Europe. Well, first of all, they count their cases totally differently, but look at Europe. Well, they have a big spike and you know what? It’s going to go down and we had a spike in Miami.
 We had a spike in Texas, Arizona. It’s all way down to very low numbers, but I’ll tell you all they want to talk about is COVID. But the good news on the fourth, they’ll stop talking. You watch. They’ll stop talking. You get out that red wave, just get out. We have to win this election. This is the most important election we’ve ever had. We can’t let this radical left socialist group take over. And I’ve been saying it now for a long time, because I see it. There’s this inclination by a group of people, our country will never be a socialist nation. We will never become a socialist nation.
 Normal life will fully resume. That’s all we want is normal life. Seven months ago, right? We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. Everybody was doing well. Best numbers we’ve ever had. And next year will be the greatest economic year in the history of our country. You see what’s happening. You see how it’s being built up. And by the way, I’d love to do stimulus, but Crazy Nancy doesn’t want to do it. She wants to get bailout money for her Democrat run states that are high crime and doing badly.
 And I spoke for Wisconsin when I said, “No, thank you, Nancy. Have a good time.” We’ll get big stimulus right after the election’s over. Hopefully we can take back the House too. It’ll be nice. Get rid of her. Get rid of her as speaker. We’ll get Kevin there and Kevin would be good. You know who Kevin is? Kevin McCarthy. If Biden and the Democrat socialists are elected, you know what’s going on with your regulations? I’ve got your regulations down to a level, but we can go further. We have statutory requirements. We’re going further.
 They’ll bury really your family and yourself and regulations, terminate religious liberty, dissolve our borders, indoctrinate our children with that really bad stuff that they want to teach in schools, which we’ve largely ended. But it can be started again and destroy the suburbs beyond repair. Suburban women, you’re going to love me. You better love me. Did you see 60 minutes the other night? I always joke. I say “Suburban women, I’m getting rid of the regulation.” You know there’s a regulation that essentially destroyed the suburbs. Okay? It would have.
 You know who is in charge of it, who would have been? Cory Booker. Good luck, Cory. He’s another beauty. We deal with some real beauties, but we had a regulation where they can build low-income housing and projects in a neighborhood near you. Right in the neighborhood near you in the suburbs. Right? So the fake news was saying, “We think that Donald Trump is having problems with suburban women.” I said, “Why? Because I’m going to stop crime from going to the suburbs?” Because you know Antifa and the anarchists, they view the suburbs is next. That’s what they would like. Right? So the suburban woman wants law and order, they want safety and they don’t want a regulation that’s going to destroy the suburbs.
 And then I listened to these people talk about how so four years ago they talked about the same thing. They said, “Women will not be voting for Donald Trump.” And then after about four hours and they declared total victory for Trump, they said, “He cannot get to 270. He cannot.” This was in the afternoon and for about six months before that, by the way. Didn’t just start. “Donald Trump cannot get.” You need 270, right? “Cannot get to 270. He cannot get.” And they were right. We got 306.
 Well, we picked up a place called Wisconsin that helped a little bit. That wasn’t high on the list of victories. Now it is, but we just know it just came out. We’re leading by three points. That’s good. They won’t report that. They won’t report that. They’ll look at 30 polls. They’ll look at 30 polls. Some of them are totally fixed. Some of them are sickos, right? They look at polls where they interview 38% Democrats, 21% Republicans. I said that, “Doesn’t sound like too fair to me.” And they’ll say, “Trump is done by five.” Well, if I’m down by five, when they’re doing 38 to 21, that means I’m winning in-
 When they’re doing 38 to 21. That means I’m winning in a landslide. What kind of polls are these? No, seriously. What kinds of polls are these? These people are crazy. Joe Biden will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, prolong the pandemic, shutter your schools. Open your schools, please. Bankrupt your small businesses, and shut down our country. He will destroy our country. And by the way, the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. I said that a long time ago. Except when I originally said. I had no… I felt it. I felt it was bad. I just felt it was an instinct. It can’t be worse than the problem itself. So the shutdown, with alcoholism, with drugs, with abuse, with suicides, with all the things that happen, it’s worse. You can’t do this. You’ve got to get your governors to open up. There aren’t many of them. There aren’t many of them there aren’t many of them now, but you’ve got to… One of the reasons, this is another one. We’ll go to the fourth, November 4th.
 They’ll be announcing, “We’re opening our state.” One of them, stupidly, like three weeks ago announced, “Yeah, we think we’re going to open probably around November 4th.” How about that genius? You’ll all be open around a couple of days after the election. Biden even wants to lock down young and healthy Americans, yet for those under age 50 the recovery rate is 99.98%. Think of that. 99. 98%. And for school kids it’s better than that. Biden’s cruel and senseless lockdowns would cause countless deaths from suicide and from all of the problems we have, and we would have problems. And economic, people lose their jobs. They lose their jobs, their small businesses go out or they work for small businesses or big businesses that go out. We’ve got to open up our states. We’ve got to tell your governor, we got to open up our states. Does anybody like your governor? Do you like him? Okay, let’s have a… Who likes the governor? Is he going to win reelection?
 Who does not like the governor? All right. Interesting. Lots of love, governor. Got to open up. A lot of governors that did this. You know Michigan, the only one that it was allowed to go around and roam was her husband. He was allowed to go fishing and sailing. Nobody else was, they had to stay locked up in their house. But we won a Supreme Court case against them. They found it unconstitutional that she locked down the state of Michigan. I just left Michigan. I gave a speech in 32 degree weather in the rain.
 And they’re great people and they’re strong people, so I said, “You know what I’ll do? I won’t put on a hat and I’ll just stand there in the rain and I’ll freeze and I’ll make a speech.” But I’ll tell, you there was such love. It was incredible. We’re winning Michigan, too. We’re winning Michigan. I had a nice hat on, I was going to put it on. And they were waiting for four or five hours. I said, “I feel so guilty.” I was on time, but they get there very early, like probably some of you. You got here very early. All these front rowers I know got here. I know the front rowers get here very early. We have it where they get three, four days in advance. Were you here three, four days? No.
 You promise you voted for Trump, right? She’s great. We have great people. We’ve never had… And four years ago we had the most enthusiastic campaign anyone’s ever seen, probably there ever was this. This campaign, and I never thought I’d say it, has more enthusiasm, more support than we did four years ago, because four years ago I was a business guy. I was successful, I was very successful. I came and I said I was going to do… Go ahead. Go ahead. Get it out of your system.
 So four years ago I came and I saw trade. Probably trade was the big… It just drove me crazy. We’re losing all our factories, closing all our factories. They’re moving to Mexico, they’re making it in China, they’re doing all these things. A lot of places moved up to Canada. Canada was very tough on us. And I saw this, that’s probably the main reason I ran. But I saw it all happening. It was so easy to see. I saw it all happening, and that’s probably the main reason I ran. But four years ago I was just saying, “I’m going to cut your taxes. I’m going to cut regulations. I’m going to rebuild your military. I’m going to do all the things I said.” And actually I did more, because Space Force. We opened up Space Force.
 I never said I was going to do that. I learned that after watching Russia and China and everything else. I learned that after I was here. One of these people right back there said, “He may be the only politician that actually did more than he promised during the campaign.” I believe that’s true. So we have actually more enthusiasm because I did everything. I said the wall. The wall was just very expensive. The border patrol wanted a certain way, very expensive. They’re right, they wanted vision, they wanted steel, they wanted rebar, they wanted concrete inside. And I said, “You know what? I’ll do it. I want to do it the way you want it. I don’t want to give you any excuses for doing a bad job on the border.” Gee, if you only would’ve built the wall right. But all of the things that I said, I did. Everything I said, I did.
 And that gives this campaign more energy than a guy that was successful that said, “Hey, I’m going to do a lot of things.” Because you’ve been hearing that for years from politicians, and they don’t do it. They don’t get the job. As I said about Biden the other night at the debate, “Joe, you’re all talk and no action.” And it’s true. And I’d looked at him and I’d say, “Joe, why didn’t you do it?” He’d say, “Well, we should’ve done this. We should’ve done that.” I said, “Joe, you’ve been there for 47 years and you left three and a half years ago. It’s not like you left 30 years ago. You left three and a half years ago. And I only ran because of you, Joe. Because if you and Obama did a good job I wouldn’t have run, there would’ve been no reason. And if I did, I probably wouldn’t have been able to win.”
 So I only ran… It was quite insulting to him, but that’s the way it is. Biden had no plan, no idea. He didn’t have a clue. He just wants to lock up this country. He really does. He’s going to lock it up. If one guy walks up and says, “Sir, I think we should close up our country.” “Okay, that sounds good to me.” While letting rioters and looters run wild, or as Joe calls them peaceful protestors. I call you protesters. You know why? Because there’s a legal definition. You can’t have a political rally. They did that to keep me out. So I said, “Oh I see, you’re protesters.” The only thing you can do is protest, because they wanted to protect anarchists, rioters people that were burning down your stores. So you have the absolute right to protest. So I call this a friendly protest, okay? Officially. Not a rally. This is not a rally, it’s a friendly protest. Okay, now we’ve gotten over the legal hurdle, haven’t we? These people don’t believe in science. They believe in whatever gives them power and whatever gives them control.
 The Biden plan will crush you and crush your family. We will crush the virus and make our success, make this country more successful than it’s ever been. We have that kind of potential. We have the foundation set. You see what’s happening, you see the kind of numbers we’re doing. We’re going to make our country more successful, quickly, than it’s ever been. When the China plague arrived we moved heaven and earth to fight the disease. We airlifted medical supplies, pioneered groundbreaking therapies, reduced the fatality rate 85%. Think of that. 85%. And now it’s actually higher than that. Well, here I am. I’m here, right? I said, “Give me that stuff. Whatever the hell it is, doctor, I want it.” The next day I woke up and I felt like Superman. I said, “Get me the hell out of here. I have to go to Wisconsin tonight.”
 And saved over 2 million lives. Our excess mortality rate has been 42% less than Europe’s. Think of that, 42%. And we’re working with Europe very closely. Look, they have a problem. It should’ve never been allowed to leave China, ever. It should have never been allowed. Once it got Wuhan, Wuhan province, it never got out, but it came to the USA and Europe and the rest of the world. I’m working to make the breakthrough treatment I received, so what we’re doing is we’re going to make the Regeneron and Eli Lilly, a great company, has a similar antibody drug. And we’re going to make that available to people that need it, free. All I know is I didn’t feel great. And after I took that, I woke up the next morning, and I’ll tell you, I felt like I could take on the world. I said, “Let me out of…”
 And here we are standing here, freezing. Thanks to our relentless efforts, 97% of all current emergency rooms visits are for something other than the virus. You don’t hear these numbers from the fake news. Think of that, 97%. And we’re on track to deliver 100 million doses of safe vaccine. And I say, we’re turning the corner. We’re turning the corner. We’re rounding, like this racetrack. Look at this, it’s perfect.
 We’re rounding the curve. We will vanquish the virus. And by the way, we’re going to have the vaccine. Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Moderna. great companies, and others too. We have the vaccine. We’re going to have it very soon. Very soon. We’re going to deliver it. But without it, also, we’re rounding the curve, we’re rounding the corner. It’s happening. We’re going to emerge stronger than ever before. Biden’s made a corrupt bargain, and the Democrats. In exchange for his party’s nomination he is handed control of his party over to a rage-filled socialists and Marxists and the left wing extremists. You see it in Portland. How about Portland? We could solve that problem in I’d say a half an hour. Anarchists, you know what happens to them, right? They go back home to mom and dad. And they also stay in the basement, that’s what they have in common with Joe.
 Joe, in that one clip. That was yesterday, that took place. That was what happened. He was in the basement. He heard that we were doing really well in Pennsylvania, which we are. We’re at least two or three points up. Doesn’t sound like much. You know what happens with us? They’ll say, “He’s three points up,” and then you win by like 10. Got a lot of hidden votes out there. I don’t know if I’m supposed to be complimented by that and not, but there are hidden votes. They don’t want to talk. They are all action, they call that all action. If Biden wins, the flag burning radicals on the streets will be running for… You know that. They’ll be running your government, there’ll be running your government. This is Election Day, you must stop the anti-American radicals by delivering Joe Biden and those far left Democrats, all Democrats, a thundering defeat. This has to be a big defeat so we can end it. Just end it.
 And Joe Biden, as you see, is a corrupt politician. He wants to send your jobs to China while his family rakes in millions from the Chinese Communist Party. Millions. And he gets money from Ukraine, he gets money from Russia. How about Ukraine? His son sits on the board. No energy experience, no nothing. Didn’t have a job. Father becomes vice-president, he becomes in charge of Ukraine. Son goes on the board of Barisma. Goes on the board of Barisma, $183,000 a month. Would you say that’s good? Would you say that’s good? If Biden wins, China wins. China will own the USA if this happens, and they don’t want me to win. They don’t want me. We charge them tens of billions of dollars worth of tariffs. We never took 25 cents from China.
 And now we gave out… Where is Hunter? She’s going, “Where is hunter?” Where is hunter? By the way, come to think of it, how about the laptop from hell? Let’s call it the laptop from hell. And then you see shifting Schiff, “It was Russia that created the laptop. It was Russia.” Shifty Schiff. He says there with a straight face, watermelon shaped head, like a watermelon. ” It was Russia.” I said, “Oh no, here we go again.” When we win, you win, Wisconsin wins, and America wins. That’s what’s going to happen. We’re joined today by members of Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce. They really helped us with this location. And we were going to be out at the airport but the governor made it very difficult so I said, “That’s all right, get a location. Friendly people.” And they really are, your state’s chamber of commerce, and I want to thank them very much. Where are you folks? Where are you guys? What a group of people. Where? Where The hell are you? I met you at the airport. There they are. Good job you did. Thank you very much, I appreciate it. Good job.
 I said, “How are we doing?” They said, “Sir, you’re going to win easy.” That’s pretty good. They slightly know the area. I’m thrilled to receive their first ever presidential endorsement. They’ve been around a long time and they gave us their… We’ve got a lot of endorsements. Got a lot of newspaper endorsements today, too. A lot of them, all over the country. And virtually every law enforcement group has given us the endorsement, even New York’s finest. They’ve never endorsed a presidential candidate and they went be given back… We’ve got to respect our law enforcement. We’ve got to let them do what they have to do. Also with us is candidate for congress, Derrick Van Orden. Terrific. Where’s Derrick? Derrick, good luck. I hear good things.
 … Orden, who’s terrific. Where’s Derrick? Derrick, good luck. I hear good things Derrick. I hear good things. Derrick Van Orden, please vote for him. Win. His competition is not good. Not good. And also state GOP Chairman, Andrew Hitt. Andrew, thank you. Are we winning Andrew, please? If we don’t win, we’re going to fire you so fast. Ah, I hear good. Yeah, just get out that vote. Get out the vote.
 Together we built the greatest economy in history, and now we’re doing it again. Make America Great Again Again. Right? Again Again. See all those hats? Those hats are obsolete. It’s Make America Great Again Again. We increased middle-class family income over $6,000 more than five times the gains made under the last administration. Think of that. In a short period of time, African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, unemployment reached their lowest levels ever recorded. Since April, we created a record 11.4 million jobs. I ended the NAFTA nightmare and proudly signed the brand new USMCA into law. That’s going to be a big deal. Just kicked in.
 Wisconsin dairy farms were decimated under the Obama and Biden nightmare. They were decimated, and now you are doing very well, and you know Canada took advantage of you very much. You know that right? Not anymore. Under the USMCA our dairy exports to Canada are expected to surge by at least 100%. And we got rid of the tariffs. You know the tariffs? You know they used to charge you. You didn’t know this. You like the song, O Canada. Right? Yeah, hockey game, nice song. O Canada, their national anthem. Right? By the way, they stand for our national anthem. Our people have to stand for our national anthem. They have to stand.
 But Canada treated us badly, 287% tariff. Can you believe that? Think of it. I learned about that I said, “It’s time to get out of that crazy NAFTA.” NAFTA was a terrible thing. When GM went bankrupt Biden and Obama threw the workers of Delphi Corporation to the wolves. Their pensions were wiped out. I signed an order to restore the pensions of Delphi and others, and healthcare benefits promised the workers. These are workers in Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin that got really promised a lot of things and it never happened. We took care of it. I will never let anyone rip off our great American worker. Took care of it. They were treated very badly with a lot of promises from Biden and Obama.
 By the way, did you see this? Did you see the people they get for the crowds? Obama was up. He drew flies today, flies. He drew nobody. You know the cars are honking. Right? Honk, honk, honk. Let’s go home. I never saw anything like this. They have cars. They have like 12 cars. Now they have circles. They had to have bigger circles for cars together. I never saw anything like it. Obama has no crowd. I thought he had like a crowd. Right? He doesn’t have anything.
 The only one that has smaller crowds is sleepy Joe Biden. He’s got nobody, and the press doesn’t like covering our crowds. We have the opposite. We have so many people. They don’t like it. But they never show that nobody … Joe was speaking yesterday. There was nobody there before they carried him off the stage. Think of it. He got nervous speaking to nobody. But that wasn’t nervous. That was another problem.
 Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in U.S. history. My opponent’s insane immigration plan completely eliminates U.S. borders by implementing nationwide catch and release. You know what that is. You catch a criminal, murderer, rapist. You catch them and you have to release them into the United States. Then within two or three years they’re supposed to come back for a trial. We had an argument during the debate. I said, “Sleepy Joe, they don’t come back.” “Yes they do. They proudly come back.” No, no, Joe. They’re murderers. They don’t come back Joe. I turned out to be right, but you know.
 He would make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. military. You know that, right? You are a big beneficiary this state. A lot of business in this state, including nearly $6 billion to save the historic shipyard, Marinette Marine. You know that, right? And they’re great. I was there four or five months ago. I was watching. They build beautiful, beautiful … It looks like a yacht with lots of weapons on it. The only difference is you got rockets all over the damn thing, but it is beautiful.
 We killed the leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi. We took out the world’s number one terrorist. Soleimani is dead. We took out 100% of the ISIS caliphate [inaudible 00:05:12]. When I took over it was a mess. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, $150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash. You know what we got? Nothing. I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. Instead of never-ending wars, we are forging peace in the Middle East. We’re doing it. It’s like working out really well. Three countries already, and many are lined up. They’re all wanting to get in.
 A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American Dream. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln. It’s a vote for the American Dream. In conclusion, over the next four years we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. It’s already happening. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, right here in Wisconsin. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. You don’t want the sanctuary cities.
 We will defend the right to life, religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. It’s very important. Supreme Court, you got to do that. You got to remember. A lot of people think that’s why I got elected because of the Supreme Court. And we’ve got already three great justices and Amy yesterday. By the end of the first term we’ll have close to three, maybe more, but approximately 300 federal judges, including court of appeals judges. A record. It’s a record.
 We will maintain America’s unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. So the two-and-a-half trillion dollars, the greatest rockets and missiles, hydrosonic. The greatest in the world. They go seven times faster than what we have today. We have tanks. We have planes. We have bombers. We have submarines. We’ve rebuilt our military. We have the greatest equipment, the greatest military force in the world. Russia, China, everybody, they are envious. Nobody thought we could do this, and we’ve done it all. A lot of it’s made right here, but all made in the USA. All made in the USA. Our nuclear is now in tippy-top shape, and just hope, just hope, that we never have to use it. That’s all.
 We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. Already signed. January 1st it goes into effect. Lower drug prices even further, favored nations. Nobody can believe I did it, and we’re going to get the lowest prices in the world. And we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. NASA right now is the talk of the world as a space center. Again, it was closed and a mess when I took over. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust. Right? For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Wisconsin. That’s what we’re doing. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, even grab your boss if you have to. Come on boss, you got to go out and get out and vote. You got to get out and vote. Got to get out. This is a thing you got to do. Just remember the great red wave. It’s now just starting to form, and they know it’s coming. They know it’s coming. We didn’t come this far and fight this hard to surrender our country back to the corrupt Washington swamp.
 On November 3rd we must finish the job, drain the swamp. Go out and vote. Could be before November 3rd. Go out and vote. From Green Bay to La Crosse, from Madison to Milwaukee, and from Janesville to right here in West Salem, we inherit the legacy of red-blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and defend our freedom. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated Fascism and Communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Wisconsin we have made America powerful again. We have made America wealthy again. We have America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you Wisconsin. Thank you very much. Get out and vote. Thank you very much.
 Wow. Thank you very much. Thank you. I feel so guilty you’re waiting out here in the rain. They gave me a hat. I said, “You know, they’ve been waiting out here for hours. I shouldn’t put on a hat,” right? They even said, “Sir, we have the car, it’s going to take you from the beautiful Air Force One,” isn’t that a beauty? But, “They’re going to take you from Air Force One.” I said, “I got to walk it.” I mean, these people are tough. They’re from Lansing, they’re from Michigan, I got to walk it. I got to walk it. Don’t give me the umbrella, I’m soaking wet already.
 But hello Lansing. Hello, Michigan. This was the scene of a great victory. Remember that? Four years ago, “Donald Trump has won the state of Michigan.” That was big. It hadn’t been done in decades, but I don’t know if you saw the poll that just came out, we’re up three in Michigan. I think we’re up a lot more, you know, they give you the fake polls. I think we’re up a lot more. We’re going to have a great red wave people that want to go out and vote. They want to go out and they want to touch. They want to vote. It’s a great red wave. It’s happening in Florida. We’re up in Florida, up four, up four.
 I’m watching these guys, they way talk, “The poll, oh,” they’re down 25 in Michigan. I said, “No, we’re going to win Michigan.” No. No, I kid when I say 25, but they put numbers, they’re called suppression, suppression polls. They make you like, feel badly, so you said to your wife, or you said your husband, “Darling, let’s go out to dinner and then we’ll come back. We love our president, but you know, the polls say he can win.” Well, right now we’re leading in almost everywhere. The real … We’re leading almost everywhere
 Now I’ve got to say, I’m working my ass off here. Sleepy, Joe, the guy goes to his basement. He’s got another lid. He goes to the basement, the lid, right? That’s the garbage can, they put a lid on you. No, yesterday we had three big ones, really big. In Pennsylvania was incredible. The crowds were incredible, like this, they’re all packed. They got people outside, I see people in the streets. It’s crazy.
 I always say to my people, “Why don’t you just get a bigger airport? Get a bigger …” Well, these are better than the arenas because our rallies are bigger than they’ve ever been, and the arenas, even if it’s 18,000 people, we’ve had 40, 45 50. You can’t hold them. And you know what’s nice? You get out of the plane, you say a few words, you go back to the plane, you say, “Bye-bye. Vote for me.” But that’s actually what Democrats do. They say, “Vote for me,” and they’re lovely to you for a few months before the election, and after the election, it’s … They’re gone.
 Nobody’s done for Michigan what I have, you have car plants being built all over, and you didn’t have a plan built in 42 years. You have them all over. I tell Japan, I tell Germany, “No, we’re not interested, go and build plants,” and I always suggest to Michigan because I have to tell you, I think of cars, I think of Michigan.
 When I got the Man of the Year, I got Man of the Year at Michigan, a long time ago, like 12 years ago, nothing to do with politics. They wrote, “Man of the Year.” I came here and I gave a big lecture on the fact, I said, “Mexico is stealing your plants. They’re going to Canada, they going to …” you lost 32% of your car production. I said, “What the hell is going on?” It turned out to be quite a controversial acceptance, but I felt that, it’s probably the number one reason that I’m standing here because of trade and have we turned that around.
 Seven days from now, we’re going to win the great state of Michigan, and we’re going to win four more years in the White House. By the way, there has never been a campaign …
 There has never been a campaign, in the history of this country … First of all, there’s never been a movement like this, there’s never been. But there’s been a campaign, and we had the record. You know, the record was four years ago that has had more enthusiasm or bigger crowds than there’s ever been. Don’t forget, they may have a crowd that’s a big crowd the night before an election, you know? But not really. There’s never been. This is … Thank you. Thank you, that’s really nice.
 A phrase, I really, I say, I don’t think they’ll find it because look at all of them back there. Look at them. Look, oh! Hello, John Roberts. He’s been very nice to us. John Roberts has been very nice to us. Thank you John. But John has never been a phrase, “We love you,” in the history of politics. I don’t care where you go and it happens, and I love you too. I do. I love you too. That’s why we’re here.
 But there’s never been anything like this in terms of enthusiasm, in terms of crowds. I saw Obama this morning. He had a couple of cars, they’re honking their horn, and then I saw sleepy Joe, so he came out yesterday, right? And you’re going to see this. He came out yesterday and he made a speech and then they had a rip of off the stage because he had lost it because he’s gone.
 Once again, Michigan is going to answer the call of history and show the world that sleepy Joe Biden, his dark money donors and his corrupt special interests, and by the way, there’s never been anything like this. He goes into a country and the family walks out with billions of dollars, millions and millions of dollars.
 Then the press isn’t allowed to report. The press doesn’t report it. They don’t cover it. The New York Times, The Washington Post, they don’t cover it. CNN …
 You know, I introduced the great justice of the Supreme court last night, right? They say, it’s the most important thing a president can do. I say maybe military, but regardless, we’ve rebuilt our military like nobody would ever believe. But you know what? It’s one of the most important … Especially because this turns the court, they had a whole thing, the most important thing in 50 years, and CNN and MSDNC didn’t cover, they didn’t cover it. They wouldn’t cover. They just couldn’t. Even though their ratings go through the roof. 60 Minutes had very good ratings the other night, a fake report, but the ratings go through the roof.
 But they didn’t cover my introduction. Can you believe that? My introduction of a woman that’s going to be there hopefully for 50 years, as far as I’m concerned. And last night we did, we made history and we confirmed Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court, and Justice Barrett will defend our rights, will defend our liberties and our God given freedom. She’s going to be fantastic and she’s a terrific person.
 Joe Biden, Kamala, do you like Kamala? Do you like her to be your vice-president? I don’t know. If he gets elected, three weeks into his presidency, they’ll say, “Kamala, you’re ready? Let’s go.” That’s why they’re talking about the … That’s why they’re talking about the 25th amendment, right? Three weeks. Three weeks in, Joe’s shot, “Let’s go Kamala, are you get ready?” Most liberal person in the Senate.
 She makes Bernie Sanders look like a serious conservative. This will not be … We can’t let it happen. This will not be the first woman president. You can have a woman president, but this will not be the first woman president. That’s a lot of cameras back there. That’s right.
 They’re all screaming, Ivanka. You know, Ivanka? You know, she’s great. She just loves to … She’s out campaigning today, doing really well. But she could be very happy, her husband’s here, Jared Kushner, he’s making peace in the middle East. He’s here. Where’s Jared? Where’s Jared? We got to find him. He’s never around too much. He doesn’t want any accolades, but he’s done something nobody else has done, he’s leading peace in the middle East without blood. Find Jared. He doesn’t want to be outside, he’s Mr. Inside, but he’s smart.
 But Ivanka she’d be very happy just being a home with the kids and we got her working, and you know who’s making a speech today? The first lady, she’s out in Pennsylvania. People love our first lady. Our first lady is doing a great job. I mean, she got the plague from China. So did I. So did Barron. Barron recovered in about 12 minutes. “How are you feeling Barron?” “Okay.” “What was the problem Barron?” “I don’t know, I didn’t think I had a problem.”
 The doctor told me, “Sir, your son has tested positive.” I see him like 12 seconds later, “Doctor, how’s he doing?” “He’s he’s all better.” Doctor did you give him one of those miracle cures?” ” No, sir. He just recovered.” Hey, young kids have a very strong immune system. Nobody even knew it. Get your children back to school, get them back to school.
 I mean your governor’s a disaster. They got to open up this state, and she’s got to keep her husband away from sailing and fishing. The only one that’s free in your state is her husband. No, it’s no good. That’s no good. You can’t do it. Joe Biden, Kamala Harris. Of course, she has it the reverse. She’s got the, “In the Harris …” And he actually said it didn’t he? “In the Harris-Biden.”
 You know, I have a great vice president and we all do. I want to give him tremendous credit, but I will never say, “In the Pence-Trump administration,” I will never say that. But he says it. That’s because he doesn’t have any clue where he is. You saw that and the radical Democrats want to pack the Supreme Court with far left Justices who won’t shred our constitution, abolish the second amendment, terminate religious liberty, shield violent criminals, and regulate your economy into oblivion. You will have a depression.
 If he gets in, he’s going to raise your taxes at a level that nobody’s ever seen. He is the first candidate I’ve ever seen who is running on a promise that, “I will raise your taxes.” I’ve never heard that one. I’ve been involved in followed and studied politics for a long time. He’ll be the first one. “I will raise your taxes massively.” It’s going to be the biggest tax increase in history. I’ve never heard of that one before, I like running against that guy.
 This election is a matter of economic survival for Michigan. Look what I’ve done, we’ve all done together for this state. This state, you’re building cars again, and if your union leaders weren’t in the pockets of the Democrats, because we get the vote, but they got these guys that just … They come to the White House., They’re so nice to me, nice to me, but they go for the Democrats every time for a certain reason. Someday, we’ll talk about it. But the people, the workers, are for us. So the workers for me.
 Biden’s plan to abolish the entire us oil industry, you saw that? Will cripple our nation and send us into an absolute deep depression. You see what he did with fracking? “There will be no fracking. There will be no …” No, he doesn’t say it that way. He goes, “There will be no fracking. There will be no fracking.” But he said it for like a year, and then he got to Pennsylvania where we’re leading, but we’re going to put it … See that big, beautiful screen. We’ll have it up there. It saves me a lot of words, that screen is great. It costs a fortune. We only bring it to very important location like Michigan.
 But then you can hear it in his own words. You don’t say, “Oh, the president’s exaggerating.” No, he said, “No fracking, no fracking. No fracking.” Then he goes to Pennsylvania, a million jobs, fracking. It’s a big part of their economy. A big part of your economy from the standpoint of energy, right? And gas. How do you like the gasoline prices at $2, right? It’s amazing.
 As they go up, you produce fewer and fewer cars. Well, I got you down to the lowest level, you are so lucky I’m President. I’m going to give another major tax cut after already having passed the largest tax cut in the history of our country. We were giving a very big middle income tax cut.
 Joe Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless ridiculous foreign wars in countries you’ve never even heard of for the most part. They’re all coming back. You know that? They’ve been coming back, but our soldiers are all coming back.
 We’re all over the place. We’re all over that. We’re in places that even the top people in the country have never heard of these places. Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA. You got killed by NAFTA. A catastrophe for the auto industry and for your state. Following NAFTA, one third of the auto jobs left and they went to Mexico and Canada, but they went to Mexico.
 Biden, enthusiastically voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization fueling the rise of China on the backs of Michigan workers. What China has done, there has been nothing, nothing, nobody, no country, there has been no country that has ripped us off for 25 years, 30 years like China. Hundreds of billions of dollars a year flows into China and I put big fat, beautiful tariffs on China. We took in tens of billions of dollars. Nobody else did it.
 And when they targeted our farmers, I told the farmers, “Don’t worry about it,” and we gave him 28 billion, which is the amount they were targeted. We don’t have too many farmers in this crowd. We gave him $28 billion, our farmers, everybody’s happy with that. You got about three farmers here, but you got a lot of manufacturers. Remember when …
 … But you got a lot of manufacturers. Remember when Obama said there’ll be no more manufacturing? You’d need a magic wand? Well, we had 700,000 manufacturing jobs. You’d need a magic wand. Altogether, half of all auto manufacturing jobs in Michigan were wiped out, think of that. After the Biden-backed NAFTA and China disasters, China became powerful because of the World Trade Organization. It became powerful, a terrible, terrible thing for our country. And then Biden goes around saying, well, no, China’s good for us. No, no, no. They haven’t been.
 How have they been? No, I don’t think so good. And then the plague on top of everything else, we got the plague sent in. He repeatedly tried to slash Medicare and Social Security. People didn’t even know. Decade after decade, Biden has twisted his knife into the back of Michigan workers, and workers all over the United States. You don’t have to take my word for it. We have Joe on tape. Please roll the tape.
 You said it on tape.
 I’ll put it on.
 Would he close down the oil industry? Would you close down the oil industry?
 That’s a big statement.
 In terms of business, that’s the biggest statement because …
 … Basically what he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas? Will you remember that Pennsylvania, Oklahoma?
 The whole thing is crazy. Is that crazy? Is that craziest race? There’s that craziest race. Our country cannot be put in that position. We have too much going, too much potential.
 We cannot be put in that position, so you got to do what’s right. Because one thing we know President Xi of China is not like that. President Putin of Russia. There’s nobody been tougher than Russia. Nobody had been tougher than me to Russia. They want me to lose so badly. He’s not like that. Kim Jong Un. Remember, we’re going to be in a war with North Korea. What happened? What happened to the war? Kim Jong Un not like that. They’re top of the game. And most of the leaders, top of the game. We can’t have that. We can say, hey Xi, that’s wonderful.
 But we can’t have that. We can’t have that. We have too much potential. We’re going to have the greatest year ever next year. We had the greatest year we’ve ever had. We had to stop it. We learned about the disease. We saved two million lives. Remember, it was going to be 2.2 million people were going to die. That was the model. We saved two million lives. And now we understand we protect our seniors, but we can’t have that. In 2016, Michigan voted. That’s a lot of people. Look at it as far as. I’m hearing the sound. It sounds like it’s from 20 miles away.
 It almost is. Thank you. Thank you. In 2016, Michigan voted to fire this corrupt political establishment and you elected an outsider as president who is finally putting America first. We’re putting it first. And a lot of times, because I’d become friendly with many of the presidents and prime ministers, kings and queens, dictators, I must tell you, dictators. But I’ve become friendly with a lot of them. And they say two things, it’s incredible what you’ve done with the economy. They always say that. They always say it, no matter what.
 They say we have done the most incredible job and they always start off by congratulating me. The next question is they want to buy our military equipment because we make the best equipment anywhere in the world. And sadly, with many of these nations who are not that friendly, we have to say no. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? Anyway, I don’t sound like a politician because I’m not a politician. I never wanted to be a politician. I became a politician for one very specific reason because we’re doing a job in the history of our country in the first three and a half years, nobody has done what we, what we, and this administration has been able to do with regulations, with taxes, with rebuilding our military, with strengthening our borders.
 By the way, our border, the strongest it’s ever been. We’re building 10 miles a week. The wall is almost finished. They don’t want to talk about the wall. Remember that’s all they talked about was the wall. The wall is never going to get built. It’s never going to get built. Then I got it built. That’s almost completed. They don’t want to talk about it. And Mexico is paying for the wall. Remember that please. If I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I fight harder than any president has ever fought before.
 One of the biggest issues for Michigan, as you know, is this race. And then this whole thing, it’s the race. It’s all the subject of refugees and what’s happening with refugees and where are they coming from. Biden as pledged, and you saw what happened the other day in France. Biden has pledged a 700% increase. This was done in the manifesto with Bernie Sanders. Crazy Bernie. He’s crazy. Is he crazy or what? But we love him because we got a big pile of his people last time with crooked Hillary. And they’re going to come again because we’re right on trade.
 One thing Bernie Sanders understood, our country was being ripped off on trade by our allies and our foes, okay, by everybody. And he got it. He couldn’t do anything about it, but his people came over, large percentages of people. People find that hard to believe, but they understood trade. Biden has pledged a 700% increase. This is in conjunction with crazy Bernie and AOC plus three, who knows less about this stuff than any human being on earth. But she does have a good line of crap. A 700% increase in refugees from the most dangerous terror hotspots on the planet, including Syria, Somalia.
 When I think of Somalia, I think of Omar, Omar, Ilhan, Ilhan Omar, who truly does not like our country. We are going to win Minnesota because of Omar, because of Omar. She likes telling us what we should do, how we should run our country. Isn’t that nice? Omar. No, we’re going to win. She hates our country and we’re going to win also because the national guard went in, should’ve been called a lot sooner. But the national guard went into Minneapolis and it was a beautiful sight. It took what? 22 minutes? It was over after a week and a half of destroying Minneapolis.
 So I think between Ilhan Omar, Ilhan Omar and really what happened with respect. We stopped it. They should’ve called us a week and a half early. We’re going to win Minnesota first time since, think of that, first time, I don’t want to guarantee. I don’t want to guarantee anything. I’m a little bit superstitious, but I want to tell you, they like us. They like us in Minnesota and how the hell she gets elected I cannot understand it. His policies will turn Michigan into a refugee camp. It’s true. She goes, I know. You’re right about that. Who said that?
 Right? She just said, I know. Everybody knows. He’s also vowed to terminate our national security travel bans. I got a travel ban. I said I want to ban. I took a lot of heat. You remember that right at the beginning. Because if it’s okay with you, I don’t want to have people that want to blow up our country. I don’t want to have people that want to kill our people. So we instituted a travel ban and it was rejected by the first court, rejected by the second court. Ultimately, it was approved by the US Supreme court. We have a travel ban.
 And now if we have countries that want to do harm to us, if we have people that want to do harm, we say stay the hell out. It’s very easy. We got a travel ban. And we’re not going to open the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. We’re not doing it. I’ve ended the influx of refugees from terrorists regions, you know that, and I’m keeping the jihadists and the violent extremist the hell out of our country, if that’s okay. Now maybe you want them, I don’t know. Maybe you want them. Maybe Michigan, let’s take a vote. Would anybody like them to come to the wonderful state of Michigan?
 Okay. I thought I knew you pretty well. No, it’s not easy doing this stuff, and it’s very unpopular. People go after you, but you have to do it. You have to do … Ultimately, I do what’s right, and people understand it. People understand it. Together, we will continue to protect American families, fight for American workers, support our police, defend our second amendment, which has been under siege. If I were not your president, you wouldn’t have a second amendment right now. Secure our borders and ensure more products are proudly stamped with the beautiful phrase made in the USA.
 And by the way, do I look soaking wet? Because the media is going to get on me. They’re going to say, he looked like hell today. He didn’t look good. His hair was terrible. It was all horrible. He looked bad. He looked bad. He looked like he was sweating. Does he have a fever? No, it’s 32 degrees out here and it’s freezing and it’s raining, and I’m just trying to keep up with the tough people of Michigan. That’s all. See, I was going to ask you permission to put the hat on. No. Here, take it. That’s a good hat. It’ll be on eBay. It’ll be on eBay tonight. We will deliver record prosperity, epic job growth, and a safe vaccine that eradicates the virus and quickly ends the pandemic. And we’ve done things that nobody believed we could do. And the vaccines are coming right around the corner. And if I weren’t here, it would have taken two, three, four years before you had this stuff. It’s happening now, greatest companies in the world doing it. Normal life will fully resume, and that’s what we want. We want normal life, normal life. Take us back. Take us back seven months ago. We want normal life.
 We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. That’s what we want, normal life. Just think of it. That’s all we want. If we didn’t have the plague come in from China, it wasn’t even going to be like we had an election. The only bad part is I probably wouldn’t be standing out here in the freezing rain with you. I’d be home in the White House, doing whatever the hell I was doing. I wouldn’t be out here. And we’re going to do other great places after this. You know that, right? This is stop number one. I’ll get off the plane, at least you with the first stop.
 Because I’ll get off the plane, and they’ll say, he looks like hell. What happened to our president? Look at these people. What happened to our president? He looks terrible. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery or a Biden depression. You’re going to have a depression, your 401(k)s down the tubes. Look how great our stock market, had a little blip yesterday because Nancy Pelosi will not approve stimulus. That’s all. But it’s a choice between a Trump boom or a Biden lockdown, but you’re already locked down. I mean, this state, we got to get her going.
 I don’t know. We got to get her going. I don’t think she likes me too much.
 See, I don’t comment to that because every time if I make just even a little bit of a nod, they say the president led them on. Now I don’t have to leave you on. Even a little nod, they say the president said, right? They asked me that question are crazy 60 Minutes. Wasn’t she rude? She just kept asking me questions. And then they interviewed sleepy Joe, and it was like, everybody just fell asleep. And they got great ratings. That’s unfortunate. They got such good ratings that they’ll want to do it again and again.
 But no, wasn’t that terrible, the difference? One is anger, craziness, fire coming out of her eyes. I look, she sits down. She said, are you prepared for tough questions? I said, just be fair. Just be fair. No, no. I mean tough questions. And I … This is the way it starts. With Biden, it’s hello, Mr. Vice President. How about did you see the reporters out? He was walking around with ice cream. What flavor is it? I don’t know. I don’t know. No, he knew. He said he had vanilla and I said, I don’t get … See those killers back there. I don’t get soft questions like that, but I was being interviewed by somebody.
 I had a group of-
 But I was being interviewed by somebody. I had a group of terrible, terrible people. Sometimes I’ll do an interview just to see if it’s so bad, because I can do very good. I can answer the question. I take all the smiling, all the fun. I just boom, boom, boom. Nobody can do that. Boom, boom, gave him a perfect interview. And then I realized it’s hopeless with these people. And I looked at him, and we’re in the Oval Office. I say, “You know, you’re very unfair. You’re very dishonest. You’re corrupt people. But you know what? We’re in the Oval Office. I’m here, and you’re not.” I’m here, and you’re not. And I sent them on their way, and then I read the article the next day. It was terrible. It bore no relationship to what I told them, but these are minor details. It’s a shame. You know, if we had an honest media, this country would come together so fast. It’s true.
 We have, not all of them, but they’re some of the most corrupt people on earth. They are. And you see it, you see it with the Biden corruption. They don’t even want it. They won’t cover it. They won’t talk about it, and that includes Big Tech, section 230. Section 230. Does anybody know about Section [230 00:01:18]? It’s a choice between our plan to kill the virus or Biden’s plan to kill the American dream. That’s what he wants to do. He wants to lock you all up. Let’s stay locked up. So I caught it, but I said, “Hey, I mean, I was given options. I could’ve stayed in the basement of the White House for a year and a half, but I’m your president. I can’t do that. I can’t do that. I can’t stay in the basement of the White House. I can’t stay in a beautiful bedroom upstairs for a year and a half. I’m your president.” And I’d go to meetings, and there’d be a lot of people at those meetings.
 And they’d say, “This perhaps is dangerous. I don’t know, this perhaps…” And then one day, “Sir, our great White House physician, White House doctor, he’s here today.” Sean, where’s Sean? Is he around? He’s become more famous than I am, White House doctor. I saw so many doctors when I was in that bed. I said, “Doctor, I don’t feel good.” I had more great doctors, more talent than you’ve ever seen. They were lying around that. I told this story, they’re lying. 12, 12 doctors, Johns Hopkins, all of them. Walter Reed is so incredible. The medical military hospital, the doctors, they really are great, but there were a lot of them. I said, “I don’t feel great, Doc. I got to be honest with you. It’s been a long time, but I don’t feel great.” And they grabbed me, every one of them. They grabbed different parts of my body, and they all were specialists.
 They were specialists. And the bottom line is I took something… Regeneron, which we’ll make it available to everybody that needs it, free. And Eli Lilly makes something very similar, and we have things that we didn’t even know about. Think about six months ago. And I don’t know if it was the strength of me. I’d like to give me full credit. I don’t want to give the drug… I was telling somebody the other day, “I don’t want to give the drug any credit.” I want to say, “Because I am a very young person that’s in perfect physical shape, I took that virus and I woke up the next morning and I felt like Superman.” It’s true.
 I wanted to get out of there. I said, “Doctors, get me the hell out of there. Get me out.” But it’s true. No, great doctors. But we know things that we didn’t know. We didn’t know. We had no idea about much of this stuff. And you see mortality rate, you see where that is now. And people go in, you get better. They say you have immunity, that you can go in. I could jump… See this crowd right here? I could jump right in. I could give every woman and every man… I’d even kiss the men. I could give every woman and every man right here a kiss, and I wouldn’t catch it. I have immunity. And until I came along, you used to hear, “You have immunity for life,” right?
 As soon as I had it and got better, they were not too happy about that. And they said, “The speed… This guy got better.” But you know what? As soon as I had it, I got better. I said I had immunity. It was supposed to be for life. When it was me, they said it’s only good for four months. Okay. Anybody else, it’s for life. With Trump, they said it was four months. So they brought it down now, immunity, from life to four months. And you know now with them, you can’t watch anything else. You turn on… COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID, COVID. Well, we have a spike in cases. You ever notice, they don’t use the word death. They use the word cases, cases. Like, “Barron Trump is a case.” He has sniffles. He was sniffling. One Kleenex, that’s all he needed. One, and he was better. But he’s a case.
 He’s a case, Barron Trump. Young people cases… And you know why we have so many cases? Because we test more, so we go around and they’re… By the way, we’re testing very young people, too. We’re testing people in school. We’re testing everybody. In many ways, I hate it. In many ways, I hate it. We test everybody, and because of that… Now, if I tested half… If I said, “We are going to cut our testing down in half,” they’d go crazy, because the cases would go down in approximately half. And then we’re going to cut it down in half once again. And there are other countries that don’t do testing, and they show very few cases. I mean, it’s a very simple thing, but overall it’s good to have the testing. We find out where it is, and there are a lot of things. But they use it to make us look bad, but here’s the story. It’s COVID, COVID, COVID. You can’t watch anything else. On November 4th, you won’t be hearing so much about it.
 November 4th. On November 4th, you’ll hear, “It’s getting better. It’s getting better.” You watch. No, no, they’re doing heavy COVID because they want to scare people, and people get it. I’ll tell you, they understand these people better than… You are smarter than most of the political people in this world. [inaudible 00:46:11] very smart. No, November 4th, you’ll see there’s a big difference. And I’ll tell you what. You know what else is going to happen on November 4th? Your governor, your governor at the urging of her husband who has abused our system very badly, the only man allowed in the state of Michigan, the only man allowed to go sailing is her husband. Now, your governor, I don’t think she likes me too much. Hey. Hey, hey, hey. I’m the one… It was our people that helped her out with her problem. I mean, we’ll have to see if it’s a problem. People are entitled to say, “Maybe it was a problem [inaudible 00:06:48].” It was our people, my people, our people, that helped her out, and then she blamed me for it. She blamed me, and it was our people that helped her. I don’t get it. How did you put her there? How did you put… How’s John James doing? Good? That’s good. Oh, he’s… I didn’t even know he was here. John. Wow, is that nice? Wow. I didn’t even know. See, I’m thinking about you and I don’t even know you’re here, John. I picked him out of a group of people they all had loaded up with money. John had money, he’s successful. Where he was really successful is in the military. He could pilot a helicopter better than anybody, I hear. And I said, “Who the hell is that guy?” It’s true. I saw John. I saw John. That’s in honor of John.
 No, no, no. Here’s what happened, real quick. I saw John. I saw four people, a different position… He’s running for a different thing. He did great, by the way, but I saw four rich guys. And I saw John and I said, “Go back.” The world’s greatest invention. Not television, TiVo, because without TiVo, television is useless. So I say, “Who is that?” I don’t know, I think his name’s John James. I said, “Do me a favor. Go back.” Now, the other guys had a lot of money. They were spending a lot of money. I think four guys, four guys… I said, “That guy… I’m pretty good at this stuff. That guy can be a star.”
 I called him. I spoke to him. I endorsed him. The four rich guys will never talk to me again, but that’s okay. They were [gonezo 00:08:48]. That was the end of them. And he ran a phenomenal race. And now I’m hearing, John, that you’re actually leading. He’s running against the guy, Peters. Think of it. John James is running against a Senator, US Senator, that nobody has ever heard of before, even in Washington. Peters. I said, “Who the hell is Peters?” He’s a Senator from Michigan. Nobody’s ever heard of him. I’ll tell you what. If one thing comes out of this small group of thousands of people, vote for John James.
 He’s a great guy, but I’m going to introduce him in a second. If Biden and the Democrat socialists are elected, they will dismantle your police departments, dissolve our borders, indoctrinate your children, and destroy the suburbs. You know, they were talking about suburban women don’t like Donald Trump. I said, “I think they do. I think they do.” I got rid of a regulation that will destroy the suburbs. I got rid of it. I said, “Ben Carson, let’s do it, Ben,” and we did it. Nobody else would do it. And if Biden ever got in, if he ever came in, it would come back and you could forget about the suburbs. And one thing I know about suburban women… Well, I was supposed to do badly with women the last time, remember? At the end, they called it that night. They said, “Donald Trump…” At the beginning, they said, “No, he won’t win because he doesn’t do well with women.”
 I said, “Really? Tell me about that.” And then… This guy goes, “only Rosie O’Donnell”. Who said that? You? What are you, a comedian or something? So they said, “Donald Trump, it will be a very short evening.” They were very happy about that, and then we started winning. We won Florida, we won Georgia. We won South Carolina and North Carolina. We ran all three. Then we won Michigan. We won Michigan. We won Wisconsin. You know, they were coming. We won Pennsylvania. Anyway, at the end of the evening, they were analyzing it. They said, “You know what? Donald Trump did great with women.” [inaudible 00:51:06]
 And that’s going to happen again, because women, suburban or otherwise, they want security. They want security. They want safety. They want law and order. They have to have law and order, and we’re going to do great. And I love women, and I can’t help it. They’re the greatest. I love them much more than the men, much more than the men. So I’m saving suburbia. I’m getting your kids back to school. Get your kids back to school. You know, we won that big Supreme Court case against your governor, so what the hell happened? Why isn’t it open? It’s still not open. You know, we sued. We won the case. What are they appealing? She’s appealing the case. Hey Governor, let your state open. Get your kids back to school, Governor. Not a good governor. And you know what else? I’m also getting your husbands… They want to get back to work. They want to get back to work. We’re getting your husbands back to work, and everybody wants it.
 And the cure can never be worse than the problem itself. And let me tell you, when she keeps everybody locked up like a prison, your drugs and alcohol and abuse and suicide, and so many things, so many bad things are happening. She’s got to get it back. And this goes for Pennsylvania. You have a Democrat. All Democrats… You have a Democrat governor. Goes for North Carolina. We’re doing great in both. We’re winning both of those states. You have a governor in each one, and you have a couple of others. Look at what’s going on in New York with Cuomo. It’s horrible. It’s like a ghost town, and the crime is way up. And California has to open up. California has to open up. I mean, what are you going to do? I see people today, store owners, they don’t know what to do. They’re going to be arrested if they open up their little small business. They can’t survive. It’s a horrible thing that’s going on. Get your states opened up. And this governor should get her state opened up.
 The last administration nearly extinguished the US auto industry from the job… Killing it, almost. The job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership, and I ended it. I stopped it. To their horrendous Korea trade deal, that was a Hillary Clinton special. Remember, she said, “We will produce 250,000 jobs if we sign this deal,” and she was right for South Korea. They produced the… They got them. You didn’t get them. To the outrageous fuel economy standards where they’re making it impossible to build a car in this country. It’s outrageous. We sued California. We sued a lot of people, because we can build a better car, a safer car, a more important car for a lot less money. Think of that. Better, better looking, safer, little heavier, for a little bit more fuel, a little bit more. You’re talking about a glass, a little bit more fuel. And that will take 10 and 15 and 20-year old versions off, you know, the gas guzzlers, out of the…
 Overall, environmentally, it’ll be so good. And we’re suing California. Think of it, a better car, a safer car, and you’ll save $3,500 a car. And we actually have a lawsuit on this. We’re going to build better, cheaper, safer, and we actually have a lawsuit. I mean, it’s not even believable. Over a little glass of… Because the difference between an engine that works and doesn’t work is a half a glass of fuel, and we have plenty, as we’ve proven. We’re the number one in the world. We have plenty of gasoline. We have plenty of gasoline, and it would be great for your car business. And frankly, your car business, they ought to get in gear, because they’re so afraid of the environmentalists. You know, they’re so afraid. Oh, I don’t know. I mean, they’re willing to spend thousands more to build a car.
 I say, fellas, are you sure? There are a couple of them that are very smart that like what I say. I’ll tell you who the smart ones are some day. I reversed each and every one of those Obama-Biden disasters, and now Biden wants to reinstate all of them. Everything that we’ve knocked out in terms of regulations that would take 20 years to build a highway, we have it down to 2 years. To get the approvals would take 20 years, even longer. We have it down to 2. I want to get it down to 1, and it may get rejected for environmental or safety reasons. I want to get it down to 1. But you have to see what we’ve done is a miracle, and that’s one of the reasons it’s been so successful. I also ended the NAFTA nightmare and replaced it with the brand new USMCA. And the USMCA is expected to create tens of thousands of auto jobs that include powerful productions to keep your auto lines going. Wait till you see what happens. It’s just kicking in right now, and one of the biggest beneficiaries will be a state named Michigan.
 And when General Motors went bankrupt, Biden and Obama threw the workers of the Delphi corporation to the wolves. Anybody from Delphi here? Because somebody, if you’re here, you got to like Trump, because we’re working on getting their pensions taken care of, because they were taken advantage of. You know about that. I signed an order to restore the pensions and healthcare benefits promise to workers in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan. So they were treated very badly, and so were you. I will never let anyone rip off our great American worker. I will not do it. Joe Biden’s made a corrupt bargain exchange for his party’s nomination. He has handed control of his party over to the rage-filled socialists, Marxists, and left-wing extremists. If Biden wins, the flag-burning radicals on the streets will be running your government, like in Portland. The anarchists, the Antifa. Hey, Antifa…
 You ever notice, they never want to go after Antifa? Nobody wants to take on it. They all want to go after anybody, but they don’t want… And I keep saying, “Well, how are we doing with Antifa, the anarchists?” This Election Day, you must stop the anti-American radicals by delivering Joe Biden and the far left a thundering defeat. We have to make this… You have to get out there on Monday, Tuesday, Sunday, I don’t care, today. You have to get out there and vote. Most of you are going to vote because you believe in voting, like I do. I just left. I just voted two days ago. I voted. I went to a booth, and they actually asked me, “Sir, may I please have your identification?” But no, they’re right in doing it. I gave her a passport. “Sir, do you have additional identification?” [inaudible 00:57:53] Come on, what are you doing? You’re going to embarrass me here. This is crazy. No, she was great.
 I mean, I’ll tell you what. There’s no cheating with that. You go to a place, they want identification, they want this. You fill out your form, they walk you over to a machine, you put it in. I mean, these ballots, it’s turning out to be exactly what I said. You see what’s going on. Who’s sending them? Where are they going? Who’s sending them back? Who’s signing them? Now they want to have unverified signature. One of the governors wants to have no signature at all, just send it back. What a horrible thing, especially since I see so… You know, I watched it so closely this time when I voted. It was so professional. You go in, and most of these people, the Red Wave, generally speaking, you go… If not Tuesday, Monday, whatever, how many people are going to vote? How many people?
 How many people have already voted? All right, good. You’re sort of a late state. That’s good. That’s good. Pennsylvania’s a very… They all vote that last day, but they go. They want to go to a polling booth. You’re like that. Everybody, look. This is the most important election in the history of our country, or I wouldn’t be standing here like this. Everybody, you got to go out and vote. You got to go out and vote. Joe Biden is a corrupt politician. You’ve seen that. He wants to send your jobs to China while his family rakes in millions of dollars from the Chinese Communist Party and other places. If Biden wins, China wins. And by the way, China will own the United States. You saw that clip up there. They will own it. China’s wonderful. There has never been anyone or anything or any country that has ripped us off like China. We will win, you will win, Michigan will win, and America will win. You got to go and vote.
 So, we’re joined today by some great warriors. I introduced one, but I’ll introduce-
 … some great warriors. I introduced one, but I’ll introduce him again, because he’s so important, and that’s John, but representatives Jack Bergman, John Moolenaar, Tim Walberg. They’re incredible. I’ll tell you what, they have been with me right from the beginning, right fellas? They like you, they like you. Michigan House Speaker, Lee Chatfield. Lee. Young guy, Lee. A young guy. RNC Chairwoman, who by the way, ran my Michigan campaign four years ago, Ronna McDaniel. She ran it so good that when we won, I said, “I have the person, the head of the Republican Party,” I said, “I want to get somebody.” I said, “You know what I’ll do? Get me the woman that won Michigan. What the hell is her name?” Her name’s Ronna. Good. She would call me, I’d come. I’d make a speech, I’d leave. Call me the next day.
 “Sir, you have to come back. You have to come back. You have to come back.” I said, “Look, I’ll do it one more time.” Because Michigan, hadn’t been one in 36 years. I said, “Look, I’ll do it one more time. That’s it.” I came back. She said, “That’s it, sir. Don’t worry about it.” I left. Two days later, I get a one more phone call. “Sir, one more visit.” And we did. Do you know, Michigan was the last stop that I made. I made it in Grand Rapids, Michigan. It was one o’clock in the morning. Crooked Hillary had come in with Barack Hussein Obama. And they came in together with Bill Clinton actually and all of them. And it was unscheduled. Meaning they found out they had a problem, right? It was unscheduled. They got here at seven o’clock. They had 500 people. I got here at one o’clock in the morning. Started speaking at one in the morning in Grand Rapids. We had 32,000 people. True.
 And remember, think of this, it was now election day. So it’s now election day. In fact, I got home, and our future first lady said to me, “Are you crazy?” You know, I get it. I got home at four in the morning, but Ronna did a fantastic job. Right? Congressmen are we doing okay? Are we winning here?. The great John James is going to win?
 Michigan GOP chair Laura Cox is terrific. Thank you. Thank you. How are we doing Laura? Are we up? They said two points. That’s not enough. We’ve got to get a little more than that. They said two points today. The great Ted Nugent. Ted. Ted. Great, Ted. He’s the only one really dressed properly. Thank you, Ted, very good. Great job. We appreciate it Ted. The president of the Police Officers Association of Michigan, Jim Tignanelli. Jim. He’s like central casting. Jim, central casting.
 Candidates for Congress. Some really good ones. Paul Young. Paul Young. Good, Paul. You’re doing well, I hear. Good, Paul. And the next US Senator, from the great state of Michigan, the legendary John Jay. I’ll tell you, he’s working so hard. Just keep working, John, keep working. We built the greatest economy in history, and now we are doing it again. We increased middle-class family income over $6,000 more than five times, again, think of this five times again, in all eight years under the last administration. African American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, and Asian American unemployment all reached their lowest levels, ever recorded. Think of that, what we had going and we had to close it up and now we’re opening it again to record.
 Since April, we created a record 11. 4 million jobs. For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders. But now we are finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the USA. Under my leadership, we achieved the most secure border in United States history. That’s what we’ve done. It’s an amazing thing what we’ve done. My opponent’s insane immigration plan would completely eliminate US borders. They don’t want to have borders. Without a border, you don’t have a country. By implementing a nationwide catch and release. You catch a criminal, murderer, rapist and you release them into our country. And then he’s supposed to come back for a trial in two years.
 And we had the argument during the debate. Did anybody see the debate the other night now? It was quite a debate. He would make every community into a sanctuary city for violent criminals. My administration is finding the illegal immigrant and the criminals gang members, the MS-13 killers, and we are either putting them in jail or sending them back home. And their home has to take them. They didn’t used to take them. We invested $2.5 trillion into the US military. Much of it’s spent in Michigan and we have the finest, greatest equipment anywhere in the world. We are the envy of the world. Russia, China, there’s no country. We are the envy of the world. The best equipment to the world, all made in the USA.
 We also pass VA choice and VA accountability. We killed the leader of ISIS al-Baghdadi and we took out the world’s top terrorist, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran nuclear deal, 150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash. What a stupid deal. And the first call I get, if we win, we got to win, first call I get will be from Iran. They’re going to want to make a deal so badly, because their economy is in tatters. I recognize the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And instead of never-ending wars, we are forging peace in the middle East. A vote for Republicans is a vote for the American dream. That’s what it is. Abraham Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln was a Republican.
 Over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world, this state right here. And we will end our reliance on China once and for all. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We will maintain America’s unrivaled. military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. Our military is now the strongest it’s ever been by far.
 When I first came in, they told me, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” That’s a true story. And no president should ever hear that again. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, already signed January 1st, lower drug prices, even more, and we will always protect patients with pre- existing conditions. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our school. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust.
 For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Michigan. See, now Biden would do that, and he’d say for the great people of… How many times did he do that? Seven? Standing up for the great people of Iowa. “Sir, sir, it’s Michigan.” There’s no recovery from that, right? When you do that, you just walk off the stage, right? I always say the great Winston Churchill, he was a great orator, even if Winston Churchill did it, he would just walk off the stage. But he didn’t do that. But sleepy Joe does it a lot. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your co-workers. Don’t let the radicals win. Get out and vote.
 Most important election, I believe. And I never thought I’d say this, because of what happened four years ago, this is the most important election in the history of our country. On November 3rd, we must finish the job and drain the swamp once and for all. We’ve got a long way, from Midland to Mackinaw, from Pontiac to Battle Creek, great things, and from Detroit to right here in Lansing, we stand on the shoulders of Michigan patriots, who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line. Think of that. So much, so much has been done in Michigan. It’s the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg revolutionized entire industries. Think of that.
 Michigan gave us Motown, the Mustang and the unrivaled might of the American Midwest, the American Midwest. We got it all. I think I got every single vote in the America, I like the Midwest. We made America into the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. That’s true. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together, with the incredible people of Michigan, we have made America powerful again, our military. We have made America wealthy again, 401ks, keep them nice and hot. I don’t want to see you throw them out. These things aren’t worth anything. Your 401ks are just about at an all-time high. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you Michigan, go out and vote. Go out and vote.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And hello, Circleville Circleville. And it’s great to be back in Ohio to celebrate the return of Big Ten football with a big victory today for the Buckeyes, 52 to 17, not bad, not bad. Do you remember how this all happened? Sleepy Joe said, “President Trump didn’t want to have football.” I said, “What the hell is he talking about?” Sleepy Joe. So I said, “What’s the problem with football?” They said, “Big Ten football is shut down.” I said, “Well, he said I did it?” Yeah, he blamed me. I said, “I had nothing to do with it.” So then I said, “I got an idea. I’m going to get it open, if it’s shut down.” Right? That’s what happened. I think he even took an ad, “President Trump shut down football.”
 I didn’t think about it, I must tell you. I’m thinking about China, and I’m thinking about a lot of other things. So I said, “You know what we’ll do? We’ll teach Sleepy Joe and that group that don’t have what it takes, we’ll teach them how to do it.” And I worked hard to bring back Big Ten. And I got together with your commissioner. He did a good job. And we got it back. And today, you won your football game, and we’re very happy about it, because I know that life in Ohio is not complete without the glory of Ohio State football and other football. I’m glad you won the game. I wouldn’t have wanted to come… Can you imagine if you lost the game? And there’s a lot of people in here, but did you see outside? You’re very lucky to be here. Say, “Thank you very much for this wonderful journey, President.” No, you have to see, you have to see, there are tens of thousands of people in the streets out here trying to get in. I think the next time we’ll get a larger field.
 Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 Yeah, that’s nice. That’s really nice. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. And by the way, we got Pac-12 back. You don’t care about Pac-12, but we got Pac-12. We said, “We might as well do out there too.” Right? And we did a double header. 10 days from now, we’re going to win this great state. And we are going to win four more years in the White House. You remember last time about this state, remember they said… For a year, I had to hear it. You cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio. I heard it so many times. That was these fake people. Look at all of them over there, all those cameras. Look at all those lights that are on, all those lights that are on. But do you remember that? They would drum it. For a year, I heard, “You cannot win unless you win Ohio.” And then I got a poll and it said we’re doing pretty well in Ohio, by the way. Right?
 And then we won. Remember they said, “It’s going to be close. It’s going to be hard to win, going to be very, very hard. And Trump, if he doesn’t win Ohio, he’s out.” And then we not only won Ohio, we won Ohio by more than eight points, eight points. And they said, you know the story when it closes, I mean, they do a fast little count if you’re winning big. They said, “The polls in Ohio have closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio.” It was like immediate. It was like in the same sentence. “The polls have closed. Trump has won.” Normally, it would take like hours and whatever if it’s close. No, we won big. And I hear we’re winning big now. And I’m hearing they gave up on the state already. And they’re going to give up on Florida very soon because we’re winning big in Florida, we’re winning big in North Carolina.
 You don’t want Sleepy Joe to be your president. He draws flies. He’s not drawing anybody. And Obama was there. They called in Obama. They said, “Sir, sir,” this was a few days ago, “Sir, I have bad news.” “What?” “President Obama is going to campaign for Sleepy Joe.” And I said, “Is that good news or bad news?” It’s true. And he said, “Well, he’s going to campaign.” So I guess it started yesterday, the day before, right? They had 42 people show up, 42. We have thousands, tens of thousands, and outside is five times what this is. No, there’s something going on. It happened last time four years ago, this time more. This time more. It happened last time.
 There was an enthusiasm four years ago, the likes of which the fake news has never seen before. Right? And I’ll have to tell you, and maybe I’ll be wrong, but at least to this point, the enthusiasm is much more, because you know what we’ve all done together? We’ve done a lot. We’ve done it. We’ve done a lot. It’s much more. It’s much more. We got all those tax cuts. We got all the regulation cuts. We got the steel guys back. We put tariffs on all the crap that they were dumping from China, 25%. They were dumping the steel. Then we said, “You can’t do that.” And lots of other things, we’ve done a lot, but it’s far greater today. Look at this field, I mean, as far as the eye can see, it’s far greater today than it was four years ago. And this is the most important election. This is the most important election of your lifetimes.
 I see a lot of young people up here. So big deal. Like what? 12 years. No. Big deal, right? It’s really the most… It could be the most important election we’ve ever had. I really believe that too. And I didn’t think I’d be saying it because our last win was such a big win, we’ve done so much. Nobody’s done more than what we’ve done. They don’t even question it when I say it, because they like to always, “Oh, he did this, he said that, he said…” They don’t even question. We have done more in the first three and a half years than any administration has done. It’s true. When you look at everything.
 And it’s an honor, but this is the most important election. I didn’t think I would say it because I viewed the last, what we did four years ago… Can you believe four years ago? Almost. Can you imagine that? Time flies. I’ll never forget the first night in the White House, they said… It’s like a surreal experience to have Abraham Lincoln’s bedroom here. I was talking to the First Lady. I said, “Do you believe this?” Took a little while, it takes a while to get used to it. And then, you know what you have to do? You have to get down to work. You get down to work. And that’s what we did. At the debate this week… Did anybody see the debate? Maybe? Couple of them maybe. But that had a lot. That was like a Super Bowl deal, I guess, with the ratings. That’s okay. We had one poll 91 to nine, it was, 91. With us having the 91. Okay?
 Yeah. I kept saying, “Hey, Joe, Joe, you want to do all this stuff? Why didn’t you do it? You were there three and a half years ago. Do it. Why didn’t you do it, Joe? You didn’t do much, Joe.” Then I said, “I wouldn’t have run, Joe. I wouldn’t have run if you did a good job. If you two did a good job, I wouldn’t have run. I didn’t need this, Joe. I had a very good life, Joe. I didn’t need this, Joe. I had a good life. I had a very nice life, Joe, but I wouldn’t have run. You did a good job, I wouldn’t have run. And if I did, I wouldn’t have won because you would have done a good job. There would have been no reason. The fact is you didn’t do a good job, Joe. You let us down, Joe.”
 And he had no idea what I was talking about. He had no clue. But at the debate this week, the American people saw the contrast between a 47-year career politician who used his public office to enrich himself. You know that. I mean, his son was like a human vacuum cleaner. He just follows. “Let’s go to China this week, Dad.” “Okay, son. Here, take out a billion and a half.” You get all the fees in a billion and a half. “How about going to Ukraine? Now, they’ll me 183,000 a month for my great, great services on energy.” ” What do you know about energy, son? I didn’t know…” “I don’t know anything, Dad, but I’ll learn. I’m willing to learn.”
 For the last half century, Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in these endless, ridiculous foreign wars. Countries you’ve never even heard of for the most part. I fight for the middle-class. I fight for everyone. I fight for this country. And Biden doesn’t know who he’s fighting for.
 Now you have to say, this is serious stuff. It is. It is serious stuff, but is there any place better to be than a Trump rally?
 I mean, seriously, right? I mean, it’s serious, but we have fun. And you know the best way to succeed? You got to love what you’re doing. And we all love it. And we love our country. We love our country. In 2016, Ohio voted to fire this depraved political establishment. And you elected an outsider as your president, who is finally putting America first. That’s what I’m doing. You work hard, you raise your families, you follow our laws, you support your church, that you’re not even allowed to go to. How about that? You can’t go to your church, but you can have a riot down Fifth Avenue. Isn’t that nice? You serve your community, and you give your love and loyalty to our great country. Now, you finally have a president that is loyal to you. Totally loyal to you. Believe me. There are easier ways to spend my life. This was… Nobody told me the swamp was going to be that deep and that vicious.
 They even impeached me over a perfect phone call. “Hello? How are you doing? Congratulations. Congratulations on your win, Mr. President of Ukraine.” “We’re going to impeach him.” These people are crazy. These people… Oh, now they’re doing it again. The laptop from hell. They found the laptop from hell. This is a laptop that they don’t want to see. How the hell this laptop got freed up, it’s amazing the way God works. The laptop from hell. Right? And now it comes. It’s Adam Shifty Schiff. Yesterday, I saw it for the first time, watermelon. He’s shaped like a watermelon. Adam Schiff, dishonest guy, totally dishonest guy. Made up my conversation. Remember in the halls of Congress, said, “Quid pro quo” eight times. I didn’t say it at all. Isn’t it lucky I had a transcriber? Isn’t it lucky? Otherwise, it would be my word against Shifty Schiff.
 But think of it, think of it. So Adam Schiff, he’s out there and he’s talking about what’s taken place, and here it is the laptop from hell. He said, “It’s Russia, Russia.” Here we go again. Russia, Russia, Russia. I think Russia must look at us, they say, “These people are stone cold crazy.” This is Russian disinformation. I’ll tell you what, we got to get back to business. This is crazy what’s going on. This is crazy. Russia.
 I heard it yesterday they got them caught… I think Biden… Didn’t he say at the debate, he said, “Well, this was Russian disinformation.” This is a disaster for them. But let’s see what happens. But see, but we have learned a lot. We’ve learned how corrupt the media is. I already knew they were corrupt. But they don’t want to write anything about it. So listen, so we caught them cold, just like we caught them spying on my campaign. We caught them doing horrible treasonous things. These were treasonous things. Let’s see what happens. Should have gone much faster, I have to be honest with you, but we caught them spying on our campaign, the whole group. And by the way, Obama and Biden, they knew everything about it. They knew everything about it. We caught them with that too.
 It’s much better if I say, “No, no, no, please.” No, it’s terrible. It’s a terrible thing. Now they’re trying to do it again where they get caught. And they’re trying to say it was Russia. They never say China. You know why? A lot of money comes out of China into their pockets. Do you ever notice? China has not been very good. We did a great trade deal, unbelievable. Two weeks ago, the largest order of corn, the largest order of soybeans, the largest. Yeah. Yeah. Except I feel different. Normally, I would have been here talking about the great trade. But you know what? The ink on the trade deal wasn’t dry. And then all of a sudden, the plague came in from China. That’s more important than trade deals. That’s more important. So it’s no good.
 With your vote, we will continue to bring back your jobs, lower drug prices at a level that nobody’s ever lowered them before and you… Last year for the first time ever, drug prices went down, but we’re doing what’s called a favored nations clause. The drug companies are not happy with me. This is not supposed to have happened. Favored nations means you’ll pay the lowest price anywhere in the world. You match. Its favored nations, and nobody’s exercised it, because nobody thought of it, probably. But if they did think of it, they couldn’t have done it because the drug companies are so powerful. They are taking… You see all the ads against me? It’s not so much Sleepy Joe. It’s the drug companies because I’ve exercised the favored nations.
 So if Germany or another country pays 25 cents for a pill, the exact pill, and we pay $2.50. And you’re talking about stuff like that, these are the kinds of differences. We pay for all research and development, everything. So if Germany’s at 10 or somebody, and we’re at much higher, we now pay 10. It’s very simple. It’s called favored nations. We pay the lowest in the world. Your prices could come down 50, 60, 70, 80%. They’ll come down a lot. And I have never had more ads spent because they have unlimited money. So big pharma they call it, right? It’s the number one power in Washington, and I’ve just learned they’re the number one power. And I knew this was going to happen. I said, “I don’t care. I’m put here to do a job. I’m put here to do a job.” They have the middlemen. The drug pricing’s very complicated. It’s very complicated stuff. They have it set so that it’s almost impossible to disengage it.
 And they have middlemen. You know the middlemen? Nobody ever heard… They never say middlewomen. I’ve never heard middlewomen. I want to be nice. I want to say middlewomen, but I’ve never heard the term, having to do with drug prices. But the middleman gets millions, gets more than the drug companies. At least the drug companies make the drugs, right? These people don’t do anything. They’re very rich. I probably know some of them. I would be not surprised if Hunter Biden was also a middleman. He probably got… On top of everything else, takes in millions and millions. And now we find out that Hunter Biden is a middleman, but these are rich people and they get all this money for nothing. So I worked a deal where Canada, which buys their drugs for exactly 50%, I’m going to let our governors, your governor, governor of Florida, other governors buy their drugs directly from Canada. Nobody’s ever done… Same drug, exactly the same, same lab, same company, same everything. And they’re going to buy it for 50% less. And then by that time, the favored nations will kick in, and you’ll get it for even less.
 So this has never happened before, but it’s happening. We will support our great police, protect your Second Amendment, defend your borders, and ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful… Isn’t it a beautiful phrase? You didn’t hear it for a long time until Trump came along, made in the USA, made in the USA. You didn’t hear it for a long time, right? Been a long time. When I was young, they used to say made in America, made in… Every car, made in… Now you don’t see it anymore. We’re going to see it. Remember, I was saying today, I was in North Carolina, speaking to a great crowd, and I said, “Remember, when I first started, I said, ‘We’re going to say Merry Christmas again.'” You remember? And remember, all the department stores, many of them are wiped out because of the internet, but these are minor details, right? But all the department stores, they’d say, “Happy new year” and everything but Christmas, they don’t want to say Christmas. I said, “We’re going to say Christmas again.” And you know what? They’re all saying Christmas again. They’re saying, “Merry Christmas.”
 They’re all saying, “Merry Christmas” again. Going to be there pretty soon. And we have a big day, better get out November 3rd, big, big, big. Who’s voted already? Who’s voted? I just voted. I just voted. Get out and vote. No, this is the biggest election that, I really believe, maybe we’ve ever had, because the radical left has gone crazy. And you know what, when we win this one, I think they’re going to rest. I really do. I think they’re going to say, “Okay, that’s enough. That’s enough.” She goes, “No, they won’t.” You’re probably right. But you know what brings it together? Success. And we’re doing a super V, we’re going up. You see housing starts, and the numbers, the automobile starts, nobody’s ever seen anything like it. The numbers for some things are better than they were pre this plague that came in, the pandemic. I mean, it’s amazing, actually amazing. We have a super V. You’re going to see a number that’s going to be announced just prior to the election, GDP. It was just estimated by the Fed to be 35%. I think the highest we’ve ever had was like seven. Now, who knows if they’re right, maybe they’re… I’ll take 25 right now. Okay? Problem is, I mentioned 35. So if it’s 25, you know what they’ll do? “It was a terrible, terrible upset for the president.” Whatever the… If it was 15, I’d be happy.
 They just estimated. They think it might be 35%. That’s unheard of. We’re coming back because we built… You know why though? Because we built a strong foundation. We had a strong foundation. If we didn’t, this country would be some mess. And if a guy like Biden gets in, where he wants to raise your taxes, quadrupled. And-
 Where he wants to raise your taxes, quadrupled. And he wants to put all those ridiculous regulations that… Used to take 20 years to get approval for a highway. Now we got it down to two years, and I’m trying to get it down to one. I think we can, and it might not get built for safety reasons or environmental reasons, but we have it down to a very, very short period of time. It used to take… We have roads 21, 22 years, and then it would get disapproved. They would then raise their hands, not to approve it after 20 years.
 Now those days are over, but he would put everything back. He’s going to raise your taxes like crazy. I’ve never seen anyone. You know, all my life I’ve been involved indirectly. Usually on the other side, only exclusively. I’ve never seen raising taxes. I’ve seen politicians. “We will lower your tax.” This is the first politician that’s ever running saying, he’s going to quadruple your taxes. What the hell? This the craziest thing I’ve ever seen. I’m looking up. I’m saying, “Is this really like… Is this serious?” First of all, I look at him and I say, “Am I running against this man? I’m running against sleepy Joe.” In primetime, he wasn’t good. Now I’m running against him. This is not prime time.
 Did you think he did well in the debate the other night? The last question was the best though, right? Because he lied about fracking. He kept going. During the primaries, “There will be no fracking. There will be no fracking.” By the way, you’re a big fracking state. You better hope that he didn’t… You’ve only got about a million. You’ve only got about a million jobs. More importantly than the jobs is you got the lowest energy prices we’ve had. How about your $2 gasoline and less? Right?
 You wouldn’t mind if it went to nine, $10, $12. You couldn’t get it. Well, they wouldn’t mind because they’d like you to get rid of all your cars. No more airplanes, no more cars, no more cows. You know, cows. I think they took that off the manifesto, right? It was too much, but they would like it. They would like it.
 No, what we’re doing has been incredible. You can’t have your tax increased. So I’m cutting taxes. We’re doing another big tax cut. That’s what brought everything in. Billions and billions of dollars has come into our country because of what we’ve done. What? You’re going to just chase it all out? These are people without a lot of heart. They go where they make the deal. We brought it down. We brought the middle income taxes down. Child tax credit, $1,000 a child. He said he wants to get rid of it. Okay? He wants to get rid of it. Why does he want to get rid of it?
 That could only take place in the great state of Ohio. And I worked here for a couple of summers in Cincinnati. I like Cincinnati. I like Ohio. Worked out well. It was a good success. And you know, it’s like, when something works out well, you like it. I was very young. A job in Cincinnati, Swifton Village, had anybody ever hear Swifton? Anyway. And we bought it and we sold it and it worked out nice. And you know, you always have like a good feeling, but I have an even better feeling because of what happened four years ago with Ohio. Even better feeling. And it’s going to happen again. But it’s the first time I’ve ever seen a politician say, “We will raise your taxes.” I’m saying, “Wait a minute. Did he say… ” No seriously. Have you ever heard a politician campaigning going, “I’m going to raise your taxes. And I’m going to put a lot more regulations. But a lot of people don’t know.”
 You know, I think the regulation cuts we did was actually more important. Maybe not for everybody, but for the business people. And then they hire and jobs all over the place. We had 160 million people working. We’ve never been anywhere close to that number. We’re going to be back very soon, 11.4 million people hired over the year, which was a record. But I think the regulation cuts might’ve been even more important. This election is a choice between a Trump super recovery and a Biden, in my opinion, this is going to happen. I hate to say it. Depression. You’re going to have a depression. And you have 401(k)s. Does anybody have a 401(k)? Throw them away. They’re not going to be worth.
 It’s a choice between a boom and a lockdown. Did you hear him during the debate? Right? He said, “I’d lock it down, oh yes. I’d… ” No, no. We’re not locking it down. No, no. We’re not. We’ve learned the disease. We did the right thing. We saved millions of lives. We saved two million lives, maybe more than that. We locked it then we opened. But we understand it.
 Like young people, Barron. He had it. The doctor said… you know, Barron very, very tall young man and a great guy. Right. But he’s young. And the doctor said, “Sir, Barron has tested positive.” I said, “That’s terrible. Barron didn’t even know he was.” He said… Next day the doctor comes in, “Sir, Barron’s fine.” Because they’re young like these guys over here. They’re young because they have strong immune systems. Right? They’re strong. They have these strong, beautiful immune systems. So it was good. I happened to test. Right? You know why? I couldn’t stay in a basement. I’d meet a lot of people. I’m President. I have to get out. I have to get out.
 No, it’s true. I’d have meetings where I’d go back and say, “You know, that’s got to be dangerous. That’s got to be this or that.” But the fact is I had it. It worked out well. Now I’m immune. I could run up and kiss this whole group of people, men and women.
 It worked out. By the way, 99.9% is good and then you’re immune and all that stuff. I heard you were immune for life. So when I had it, I said, “I’m immune.” To them, to the fake news. And they said, “But only for four months.” I heard it was for life. With me it was for four months. If it was anybody else they’d say for life. But anyway, no, I had it. First Lady had it. Right. And you get better. We got better. They love the First Lady. Very elegant. Most elegant First Lady. No, it’s amazing. It’s amazing. They don’t treat her very nicely and she’s incredible. The most elegant woman. And she goes, “But that is okay.” She loves the people. I mean, it’s really amazing.
 Yeah. She’s done a great job and she loves it and she loves the people, but she had it recovered. I had it recovered. Barron had it ,didn’t even know he had it. So it’s one of those things, but we have to lead your life. So when I would be having meetings with Gold Star families, military, lots of other people. I’d have meetings. Right. And I go and I do the meeting and sometimes people would come up and they get close and everything else, mask, no mask. They get close. And at least some of these meetings say, “That could be dangerous. I guess. I don’t know.” But I have to do my job. As I said at the debate, I can’t put myself in the basement of the White House for a year and a half. I can’t do it till this thing goes away. And it is going away. It’s rounding the term. Do you notice they talk about cases, always cases, cases, cases. They don’t talk about the mortality rate down 85%. Because what we have is so incredible, the job we’ve done is so incredible. 85%.
 Think of that. 85%, but they do it. And you know what? On November 4th, you’re not going to hear the news. The CNN, all they talk about. COVID COVID COVID COVID. If a plane goes down with 500 people, they don’t talk about it. All that talk because they’re trying to scare everybody. You have to lead your life and you have to get out. You have to be vigilant. Be careful, socially distance, get too close. Put the mask on, put it on, get on lots of different things. But really I see what they’re doing.
 It’s just like they try to hide all of this corruption from the Biden family, by not putting it. They refuse to write it. And I have to give the New York Post, my hometown paper, the New York Post, the oldest newspaper in the country, the fourth largest. I have to give them credit because they went against the grain, and they’re willing to expose all of this corruption. And then you see Big Tech. They won’t put it on. And if you put it on, they delete you. They terminate you. Charlie Kirk, break up Big Tech. Well, they did sue [inaudible 00:08:50], nothing to do with this, of course. But they did sue Google on Thursday. Right? You like it?
 No, terrible. No, no, but they’ve exposed themselves because nobody knew it was that serious. They won’t put it on. And if you put it on, if you put something on from the New York… I think they… Didn’t they delete the New York Post? They terminated out the New York Post. Can you imagine a newspaper? They won’t put it on. People have learned, they don’t want anything because if Biden got in, they would own the world. If Biden got in, China would own our country. I mean, China.
 Did you see where the kid was trying to get $10 million a year for introduction purposes? Okay. This was all down in the paper. They say, “Russia did it.” This was all down in a paper. Now confirmed by the guy that ran the company. He’s not… I would say they’re not too happy with him. Wouldn’t you say? I saw him the other day, but it’s all right stuff. I mean, what he’s saying is right. He couldn’t take it anymore. He couldn’t stand the corruption. So let’s see. But can you imagine when people say, “Don’t print it.” In other words, you’ll never hear it, but you know, it ended up backfiring. Because that happened, it’s become a much bigger story. Because you add it all up, it’s actually become… If they would have printed it, who knows what would have happened? You forget it? Something… But it’s become a much bigger… Big Tech, section 230, right? Big Tech is corrupt.
 The media, the fake news is corrupt. And I’ve been saying it for a long time. Even I didn’t know that you were that corrupt, but look at all of them. Even I didn’t know that you were that corrupt. In the meantime, you watch the television sets go off. Let’s cut. Cut this guy off. Cut the President off. Can you imagine they’re broadcasting this stuff and now they’re saying, “Cut him off,” but it’s okay. I don’t mind because I like telling the truth. Biden and the Democrats will offshore your jobs. Dismantle your police departments, dissolve your borders, confiscate your guns. Second Amendment. They’re after it.
 Eliminate your private health care. You know, we have 180 million people with private health care. A lot of you have private health care. It’s what you dream of. It’s great. You negotiate. You have many great companies doing it. They compete. You have great private health care. They want to terminate it. They want to terminate your religious liberty. They want to destroy the suburbs. I am the best thing that ever happened to the suburbs. You know, they were talking about this… 60 Minutes. She asked me a question. You saw that I printed out the whole interview. I said, “Put it down.” But she said to me a question, one of her questions, she said, “Why are you begging? Why? Suburban women? You said, “Please love me suburban women, please, please, love me, please. I beg you. Please love me suburban.”” No, I didn’t say that. What I did is I said, “Love me suburban women,” because I saved the suburbs.
 They had a regulation. They had a regulation that would have brought low-income housing projects and crime right to their doorstep. Would have been right next to it. And I said, “Suburban women, you’re going to love me.” That’s what I said. And I was being sarcastic. They said, “Why are you begging for the love of suburban… ” Suburban women are going to love me. You know why? Because they want security. They want safety and they don’t want a regulation that’s going to destroy suburbia. That’s all. That’s all. Because they said, “He’s not doing well with suburban women.” I said, “What about suburban men? How am I doing?” “Well there, you’re doing okay. You’re doing well with the men. Not the women.” But Biden has vowed to abolish fracking, right? He says, “We’re going to not frack anymore.” He has no idea what it means.
 We are not no fossil fuels, no nothing. We’re going to close down all our factories. We’re going to go with wind. Wind. Wind is going to be the answer. Kills all our birds, everything else. We’re going to have massive blackouts like they have in California, the whole country. You ever see the brownouts? Crippling power outages. 700,000 Ohio jobs would be destroyed. Biden lies about a lot of things. He lied about that. He lied about social security. You saw that, social security. He also won’t tell you the truth about decades long quest. He had a decades long quest to renegotiate social security and Medicare. And he said he didn’t do it. We have a tape here someplace. Do we have the tape? I hope it works better than the big 10 tape. Okay. Play both videos. So we have one real quick. We have… I only do this you.
 You said it in the tape.
 I’ll put it on.
 Turn it up.
 Okay. So there he said, “No, fracking.” Social security.
 We’re starting to use this very expensive means of communication because it’s so much easier than my explaining it. So number one, he said, “There’ll be no fracking, no fracking, no fracking.” He luckily gets a nomination because Elizabeth Warren stayed in for an extra three days, right? If she would have left before Super Tuesday, he wouldn’t have won one state. He would have been out. And then I would have been competing against crazy Bernie instead, which is okay. I don’t care. Well, there would’ve been more energy. I mean, there would have been a lot more… No Bernie has more energy, smaller little face maybe, but have a lot of energy. They’re coming to us because a lot of them, they agree with me so much on trade. We got a lot of them last time. But anyway, so no fracking.
 Then he goes to Pennsylvania, great place. And he says, “Yeah, you’re going to have fracking. A million jobs.” They want to keep their bills down. Right? The lighting bills and the gasoline. So all of a sudden he goes from no fracking to, “We will frack.” And everyone said, “How the hell?” And the fake news doesn’t call him out on it. They don’t even talk to him about it. So I bring it up because that’s good. It’s expensive to do, but you know what? It’s worth it for the great state of Ohio. Right. Then we hear about Medicare and social security. So all my life I’ve heard, if you even touch social security, you’re out of politics. This guy tried to destroy social security and Medicare and Bernie caught him. I’d like to thank Bernie very much. You know, Bernie is honestly, he’s a good sport. He’s one of the greatest losers in the history of politics, seriously.
 He lost viciously with Hillary and possibly shouldn’t. I mean, I think she sort of beat him, but he was treated very badly. And then this time he should’ve won, except that she said… I mean, what they did, they quadruple teamed him. And what they did to him was incredible. And he’s got no hard feelings. You know, he just goes back. Bernie is the loser. I mean, I’ve never seen a guy like this. He loves to lose. Some people love to lose. Some people. As long as I’m your President, I will always protect Medicare and social security like I promised.
 And he won’t and he won’t, and America will continue to be the number one producer of oil and natural gas, anywhere in the world. You don’t have to worry about me with your Ohio fracking. You frack till your heart’s content. By the way, and it’s not up to him just so you understand, it’s not up to him. He switched, but this party is not going to let him frack, okay. They’re not going to let him frack. And he’s got no… And he’s probably not going to be in there too long anyway. They’ve got the dream. They’ve got this Kamala who is the most liberal person.
 And she said, “There will never be fracking.” Now she’s saying, “Well, I think we can live with it. Yeah.” No, no, no. Go with what they say first. In politics, go with what they say. That’s where they come from. And they don’t have a choice. She doesn’t either. There’s not going to be fracking if they win. There’s going to be a lot of bad things happening. Like socialized medicine, like a lot of bad things are going to happen. Joe Biden has made a corrupt bargain in exchange for his party’s nomination. He has handed control of his party over to the socialists. I hate to say this, the communists, the Marxists and the left wing extremists that you see running up and down the street.
 And the left wing extremists that you see running up and down the street doing tremendous damage in Portland and various places that we could stop. And Antifa. You’re right, Antifa. I said, “Joe, tell us about Antifa, Joe.” “Oh, that’s just an idea.” Really? When you get hit over the head with a baseball bat, that’s not an idea. No, he doesn’t want to talk about Antifa. I said, “Joe I’ve been endorsed by almost every law enforcement group in the country, almost everyone, sheriffs, police. New York City’s finest, they’ve taken all of that great vim and that enthusiasm. What they’ve done in New York is terrible. All run by Democrats, all run by radical left Democrats or even Democrats. You look at what’s happened to New York crime-wise, you look at what happened to Chicago. Look at Portland, look at Portland. Look at Oakland, look at Baltimore.
 By the way, Obama talks like his administration. He had stuff. How about Baltimore? How about Oakland? How about Ferguson? How about St. Louis? What he had. And it’s like I said, that’s why I’m here. I’m here because people were not happy. They’re running a slate of the most radical candidates in American history. They are running the most radical people, AOC plus three, AOC. How about AOC?
 How about in Minnesota, beautiful Minnesota? Omar, Ilhan Omar. And she’s always complaining about the way we run our country. I think we’re going to win. Minnesota hasn’t been won by a Republican since 1972. Does anybody know that? I think we’re going to win Minnesota. First of all, we did a very good job with Minneapolis. That National Guard went in. We have to get a call. We’re not allowed to send them in unless we want to do something much tougher than that, which you don’t want to do. But we have to get a call. So we get a call, but the National Guard went in. In a half an hour, the whole was … To me, it was a beautiful sight. Boom, boom.
 To me, it was a beautiful sight. They lined up and they just started walking and that was the end of that. They should have been called a week and a half earlier. They could have saved a lot of people and a lot of buildings and a lot of area. If Biden wins, the flag burning rioters on the streets will be running your federal government.
 I signed into law, when the statues were coming down, our monuments, and at first they were monuments of people we never heard of, and I said, “You know what? You let them get away, they’ll be wanting to take down monuments of George Washington.” Everyone laughed. They thought it was funny. I said, “I’m not kidding.” And they did. If I weren’t president, you would have monuments taken down all over the city of Lincoln, of Washington, of Jefferson. They were going for the Jefferson Memorial. Can you believe this?
 And we have a mayor in D.C. who formed a commission with recommendations. Her recommendation is take down the Washington Monument, close up the Lincoln Monument. No, no, these are serious. You read about it. I said, “No, thank you. No, thank you. No, thank you, Madam Mayor. We’re going to keep the Washington Monument just the way it is.”
 These people. These people are crazy. I went to Mount Rushmore, made a speech. I don’t know if you saw my speech, but people liked my Mount Rushmore. But you know why they liked it? Because it was so beautiful. And behind me this mountain is carved so beautifully. It’s beautiful. South Dakota, beautiful. And I’m making a speech, and then I realized they want to take down Mount Rushmore. No, it’s not happening.
 By the way, don’t tell that to the people of South Dakota. So when I saw the thing with the statues and with the monuments all over the country, I said, “We need a strong, strong law. Not with this Congress we have now, where one day would be too much.” And we took out an old law and it says 10 years in prison if you knock down a monument. And I reenacted it, I signed it. And they were coming in Washington. They wanted to knock down quite a few of our beautiful monuments, including one of Abraham Lincoln, and you remember Jackson, they had the ropes. But the police went in, did a great job. They did a phenomenal job.
 They went in, these police, they went in. They were unbelievable. It’s true. Remember they had the ropes, they were ready. They were starting to pull it. And they’re pretty rough guys, but the police went in and they’re much rougher. It was over so fast. It was over so fast.
 Andrew Jackson, who was a great general and a good president, maybe a very good president, take it down. Andrew Jackson, a great battle of New Orleans, a great general and a very good president. Beautiful, right opposite the White House. They wanted to pull it down. They were ready, and the police went in and the police did a great job. They did a great job.
 But I said, “We need something.” So we signed something that says 10 years. And you know, they were going to march the following day. They were going to have thousands of people come to rip down statues in Washington. And we informed them, “It’s 10 years in jail, 10 years in prison.” They actually used the term prison because it’s a tougher term, right? It’s in prison. Today they don’t use that term today. They use much nicer terms.
 It says 10 years in prison if you knock down a monument, do anything to damage a monument or a statue. So what happened is they heard about it, and they came in. There were only 24 people. It was supposed to be tens of thousands. 24 people, and they looked around and the 24 people said, “Let’s get the hell out of here.” And that was the end. That was the end of it. It’s amazing.
 It’s amazing what the pen can do, right? The pen. But you couldn’t go to Congress today and get that because they don’t think this way. Today they don’t think. Today they say, “What? It’s freedom of speech, knocking down a statue, it’s freedom of speech. You can let them do whatever they want to do.” Can’t do that. Can’t do that.
 So the federal government’s been doing a great job. Now the state governments have to get tougher, and the state governments have to call in the federal government when they have a problem. It’s very simple. The mayor is right. They could use some help. The first thing they’ll do if they win this office, and I don’t think it’s going to happen based on everything I’m seeing, is they’re going to pack the Supreme Court with far left judges who will eliminate your Second Amendment.
 And if you happen to be pro-life, you can forget that. You can forget that. They will change everything. They will change it. We took our time. I have three Supreme Court justices. We have a great one coming, a great one coming. Three great ones. Many presidents have had none. Think of it. And me, their worst nightmare, has three.
 Their heads are exploding. No, but just of equal importance in my opinion, by the end of my first term, we’ll have 300, give or take a little bit, 300 federal judges, including court of appeal, 300. A record, it’s a record. No, it’s a record. So think of that. 300 federal judges, I think, close to 60 court of appeals judges, and three Supreme Court justices. I mean, can you believe it?
 Even I can’t believe it. Even I. It’s a record. If I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. And if I don’t always play by the rules of the Washington establishment, it’s because I was elected to fight for you and I am fighting for you harder than any president has ever fought. So we’re joined today by a couple of our good friends, state auditor Keith Faber. Where is Keith? Keith.
 Good job, Keith.
 Thank you. So Keith has done great job and thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it. That cheering was for you, Keith, I think. Was that for Keith? State supreme court justices, Judy French and Sharon Kennedy. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, Judge. And a person that right at the beginning, she was with us. She was right there and she’s fantastic, GOP chairwoman, Jane Timken. Great, Jane. How are we doing, Jane? How does it compare to four years ago? She goes more so. Even more enthusiasm. I mean, it’s true.
 They’re going to find out on November 3rd. It’s going to say, ” Oh.” Remember four years ago that evening? Was that one of the greatest evenings? They said, “This will be a very, very short evening for Donald Trump.” Then they say, “Donald Trump has won the state of Florida.” “Whoa, what’s that all about?” “Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio.” “What the hell is going on?” “Donald Trump has won.” They had North Carolina. They said that’s their stopgap, that’s the one. “Donald Trump has just won the state of North Carolina.”
 Then, Georgia and South Carolina, and we just swept that whole place. And then we came in with Michigan, hadn’t been won in decades and decades. And we came in with Wisconsin, hadn’t been won in a long time. And it was one of the most beautiful evenings, wasn’t it? And then they talk about, “If you lose, will this be a friendly transition?”
 And I said, “Let me ask you a question. When I won, did they give me a friendly transition?” They spied on my campaign. They did all this stuff. That was not a friendly transition was that, huh? I also want to recognize Pickaway County commissioner and Ohio State football legend, oh, Champ Henson. Where the hell is he? Whoa, good looking guy. You look like you could play tomorrow, Champ. Boy. He’s a hell of an athlete. Jeff. Great. That’s great. Champ led the nation in scoring when he played for the great Woody Hayes at Ohio State. Right? Great.
 It looks good. Handsome guy. Woody Hayes was easy to play for, wasn’t he? He was a nice guy. He goes, “No, he wasn’t.” That’s okay. He was great though, wasn’t he, huh? You know what? He got it done, right? He got it done. Great. Nice to see you, Champ. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
 For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, right? They would spend money on these foreign nations that didn’t give a damn for us, fighting foreign wars and defending foreign borders. But now we are finally protecting our nation. We are rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops back home to the U.S.A. Our troops are all coming back. Got to fight the deep state all the time. No, but our troops are all coming back. Afghanistan, 19 years, would you say that’s enough?
 And we’re policemen over there. We’re police. We’re were policemen over there. Under my administration, we built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And now very simply, we are doing it again. We built it. We had to close it down, unbelievably. I couldn’t believe it when they came to my office. And we had to close it down. We did the right thing. We saved all those lives.
 Now we’re reopening it. And we’re doing it at a level that nobody’s ever seen before. In my first three years, we increased family income. You know, it’s called Make America Great Again, right, like the hat. Make America Great Again. But now I say, Make America Great Again Again, Make America Great Again Again.
 We increased family income over $6,000, more than five times the gains in all eight years. So we did it in three years under the past administration. Think of that, five times more. African American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, and Asian American unemployment all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country. All unemployment.
 I mean, I’ve seen so many forms of unemployment, with a high school diploma, without a high school diploma, an MBA, a college degree, graduating number one at MIT, everybody was doing better. Women doing unbelievably, unbelievable, breaking every record. But we had to slow it down, close it up, save those lives. Understand this horrible virus that was sent to us by China, but sent to the whole world, sent to the whole world.
 They stopped it from going into other parts of China, but it came to the U.S. and Europe and all over the world, and we can never forget it. We can never forget it. After the virus hit, we’ve recovered faster than any major nation on earth. We’ve recovered faster economically since April. Since April, we created a record 11.4 million jobs. This week, I signed an order to protect the pensions of workers of Delphi Corporation. Do we have any of those workers here? You are so lucky I’m president. There’s two people here.
 You are so lucky that I’m president. But when General Motors went bankrupt, Biden and Obama threw these workers really to the wolves. Their pensions were totally wiped out. Their families were left in disarray. It was a terrible thing. So my order is the first step to restoring the pensions and healthcare benefits promised to workers in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Ohio, and congratulations. No, they were treated very unfairly. And they were promised all sorts of things, and then as usual, nothing happened.
 I will never let anyone rip off our great American worker. We’re not going to let them rip it off. And they have been doing that for a long time. Joe Biden says buy American, but he spent 47 years in Washington sending our jobs to foreign countries. And you’ll also notice he never says hire American. Did you ever notice that? That’s because his plan is to hire foreign workers. He wants open borders and he wants unlimited illegal aliens coming, and we don’t know who they are.
 So that leaves no jobs for the Americans, so we have that straight dole out. It’s all done. Don’t worry about it. Don’t get upset. In fact, he’s vowed to terminate all of the protections that I’ve given to the American worker. I’ve given you a lot of protections. To save our auto industry, I withdrew from the horrible Transpacific Partnership. It would have been the worst.
 I ended the NAFTA nightmare, one of the worst trade deals, probably the worst trade deal. Everyone said it would be impossible to do, and proudly signed the brand new USMCA into law, Mexico, Canada. And by the way, just kicked in. The difference is unbelievable. You know how I know it’s good? Because those two countries aren’t quite as happy as we are.
 But NAFTA was a disaster. We lost 60,000 factories went to different countries. It’s terrible. It was terrible. It was a terrible thing to have signed. And everybody said it would be impossible to terminate. I terminated it. And we have the USMCA, which is great, great for us. And it makes it very, very tough. And the wall is almost complete. He says, “Build the wall.” The press doesn’t talk about the wall anymore because it’s all built. Very soon, it’s going to be completed. And it has created such an unbelievable strong border. You have no idea. And Mexico also, Mexico’s given us 27,000, think of that, 27,000 soldiers to protect our border. I said, “You have to do it. You have to do it because it’s not right. And we don’t have people.”
 Remember when I came in? Remember the caravans coming in, they were coming in. Thousands and thousands of people were trying to come in. I said, “You can’t do it.” You don’t hear about any of these stories anymore. You don’t hear about the wall anymore. Used to be wall, wall, wall, because they never thought I’d get it built. Once you’re a developer in New York City, this is easy.
 No, we got it financed. Mexico will be paying for it because we’re going to charge a fee at the base. So it’s very simple. But they’ve been great. Mexico’s treated us very well. They didn’t use to treat us well, but now they treat us well. Joe Biden has vowed that he wants open borders, mass amnesty, and free healthcare for all illegal immigrants coming in.
 And that was another tape he had, right? They had 16, 17 of these super radical left people running on the Democrat side.
 That wasn’t so bad. I was waiting. I could hear that. That wasn’t that bad. That’s good because you got a lot of people watching you on television. But remember, they said, “Who is going to give healthcare to illegal immigrants coming into the country?” And they all raised their hands, everybody raised their hands except Joe, because he’s been doing it for 47 years. He knew it was not a good thing. So he did the shoulder. Remember?
 And then he got the hand up. I said, “Ah, I just won,” because you can’t do it. The problem is, look, we all have a heart, but if you do that, you’re going to have tens and millions of people pouring into our country for healthcare, for college, for school. They want to get free school, free education. They want to give, the new one, they want to give free lawyers to everybody that enters our country illegally.
 That’s down in the manifesto with Bernie. That’s between those two characters you saw up there, Bernie and Joe, Sleepy Joe. Bernie got taken further left. Can you believe it? Bernie is supposed to be taken to the right. He took Joe further left than anything he ever did …
 … taken to the right. He took Joe further left than anything he ever did. The manifesto we call it. Biden’s also pledged to terminate all national security travel bans. I got travel bans if it’s okay with you, because I did like people that want to come in and blow up our country. Okay. I got it passed. Wasn’t easy. That was not easy. That was a bad one. That was a tough one. They thought I was a bad person. No. I want people to come into our country who love our country, who can help us, not people that want to blow up things and kill people. But travel bans and increase, they want to increase refugees. This is an agreement with Bernie Sanders. Increase refugees, 700%, opening the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. No, thank you. No, thank you. We appreciate it, Joe. Thank you very much, but no thanks. I’m keeping the terrorist jihadist and violent extremists out of our country if that’s okay. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military, including more than $6 billion in contracts. Oh, for Lima. You know, Lima, the army tank plant. Lima. I did that when I was here. That was going to close, that plant. I was President Elect. So I had nothing to do for a little while. There was a little time, I didn’t know I was being spied on. So I had nothing to do. And I heard about this tank plant and I had some friends, a lot of friends in Ohio. And they said about this tank plant that… Jim Jordan, the great Jim Jordan, who we love. He’s one of them. Jim Jordan was a great NCA wrestling champion, too. He was great. He was great. Jim Jordan is a great warrior I will tell you that. Nobody like him. But it’s true. Jim Jordan and others, they said, we have to save this plant. I said, let me take a look.
 So I actually went to Lima and I saw this plant. And it’s the only plant now that makes army tanks. And a level of sophistication, you wouldn’t believe it. And I went through, I’m good at this stuff. I went through the plant. I said, “If we ever close this plant, you’ll never be able to get the skill, the talent or a facility to do this.” I’m not going to buy our tanks from China. Okay. We were close to that in the steel world. Let’s buy our steel from China. No, thank you. You know, there are certain industries we have to have and we brought that back. So I said, “No, I’m not going to let this be closed.” And I stopped it. And we are making tanks at a record level, all made in the USA. We’re making it at a record level.
 And you’re right. Jim Jordan was very helpful.
 You would have never been able to replace that plant, this big, incredible sprawling place. And they make these tanks. They’re so sophisticated. You wouldn’t believe it when you see. I look inside. I said, “No, thanks. I don’t have to go inside. I don’t need that.” You know who tried that? Dukakis, that didn’t work out. I’m slightly larger than him. I might’ve had the opposite problem. But he didn’t look cool. That was not a good picture with him with a helmet. Does anybody remember? Dukakis? He was up 10. After that picture, he was down 15. He went down 20. No, I don’t have to go into the tank, but I did happen to look in and I said, “That’s like a complex machine. That’s incredible what you do. We can’t close this place. You’ll never be able to reproduce this.” And we didn’t close it. So it’s one of a lot of great decisions I think we’ve made for our military and for the people and also for the people of Ohio.
 And we took over 100% of the ISIS caliphate. You saw that, Syria and Iraq. And for years there were after this blood thirsty killer. They were after, they could never find him, but we found him. We killed the leader, founder of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, we killed him. And then we took out the mass murderer of American troops and many other people, Soleimani is dead. I withdrew from the last administration’s disastrous Iran, nuclear deal. One of the dumbest deals. And I recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.
 And instead of never ending wars, you see we just signed yesterday another one, Sudan. So we have Bahrain, Sudan and the United Arab Emirates. Really led by a great leader, Muhammad, a great leader, and we’re getting peace without blood all over the sand. It’s going to happen. We have many other countries that want to come in. Many other countries want to come into that deal. We’ll have peace. I did more in 47 months than sleepy Joe Biden did in 47 years. That’s right.
 A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, a limitless future for all Americans. Really it’s a vote for the American dream. That’s what it is. We’re for the American dream. I’m for the American dream. The Republicans will be with us. Then in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world. We’ve already started. We will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s already happening. We will hire more police, increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement. And we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms.
 We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of the ridiculous, endless foreign wars if that’s okay. Keep them out. We’ve created the greatest military in the world. The equipment that we bought. 2.5 trillion, 2.5. That was much easier to get, frankly, and the Democrats didn’t want to give anything, but that was much easier to get, believe it or not than the wall. They didn’t want the wall. They said the wall is old fashioned. They wanted drones flying around so you could watch people pour into our border. Okay. And you know I’ve been saying it a lot because it’s true. There are two things that will never get obsolete, a wall and a wheel. Right? I said the wall and that wall is that just has stopped them. But what we’ve done is we’ve created two and a half trillion with a T, trillion dollars. We have the greatest jet fighting planes, tankers, missiles, rockets, submarines. We have greatest weapon in the world, submarines greatest, most powerful weapons in the world.
 Our nuclear arsenal is fixed and ready and only hope to God we never have to use it, but you know what? We’re much less likely to have to use it because right now we have things. The hydrostatic missiles, I call them the super-duper missiles. They’ll go seven times the speed of a normal quick missile. I mean, these things are amazing. And you know, Russia took things that we had during the Obama Administration, from our great scientists and engineers. And they built, they have hydro sonic, but we have hydro sonic now that they’re fastest in the world. We needed all of this stuff. We have the greatest equipment. We are the envy of the world, whether it’s Russia, China, North Korea, we have the greatest equipment. We have the greatest people. We have the greatest warriors. But our warriors needed the equipment.
 And when I came into office in my first short period of time, one of the world’s most overrated generals told me, “Sir, we don’t have ammunition.” I said, “That should never be said to another president again.” And now we have so much ammunition, we don’t know what to do with it. So we have totally rebuilt our military. The finest equipment anywhere in the world, nothing even close, no other country has anything even close. The fake news was saying, “You shouldn’t be saying that, you’re giving confidential information.” That’s okay. I’ll say it. There’s nobody. Can you imagine that? They wanted to even call me on that. Maybe they should impeach me for making that statement.
 And we will ensure peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require the biggest thing there is, price transparency. Remember I said it. Kicks in on January 1st. It’s bigger than healthcare. Wait till you see what you can do when you have transparency, where you can negotiate with your doctors, your hospitals, et cetera. Lower drug prices, as I said, favored nations. And even more, we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And so importantly, we will live by the timeless words of our national motto In God We Trust. Amen. For years you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of Ohio. Thank you.
 Biden used to say that he’s made a lot of mistakes, because he was never sure where the hell he was. Right? So let’s say, like that line, maybe a lesser version of it. I’m standing up for the great people of Florida. No, they had no palm trees. Now he did that about seven times. Once you do that, walk off the stage, no matter how good a speech you give, it’s no good. You just walk off the stage. Standing up for the great people of Idaho. He had Iowa and Idaho and he couldn’t figure it out. This is not what we need. For the last four years. You have seen me fight for you. And now I am relying on you to deliver another historic victory for our country. Go through Ohio. Vote early, bring your friends, your families, your neighbors, your coworkers, get your boss to go. I don’t care. But you have to get out and vote. Everybody has to get out and vote.
 From Akron to Columbus, from Dayton to Cleveland, from Cincinnati to right here in Circleville, we stand on the shoulders of red blooded American patriots who poured out their heart, their sweat, their soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom. We inherit the legacy of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, laid down the railroads, dug out the Panama Canal, raised up the great skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world. And the best is yet to come. Best is yet to come.
 Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. That’s what this has all been about. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Ohio, we have made America powerful again, military. We have made America wealthy again, stock market. We have made America strong again. We have made America proud again. We have made America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Ohio. Go out and vote. Thank you.